Multi-talented artiste Arnold Gara (31), who is a musician and actor, is relishing being part of the popular ZBC-TV soapie Wenera. The actor plays the role of Boss T1 on Zimbabwe’s first high-definition soapie. Gara has featured in over half a dozen feature films and dramas.  By Precious Chida The creative artiste also once tried his hand at designing and came up with a label “Karma 69” in 2014. NewsDay Life & Style reporter Precious Chida (ND), caught up with Gara (AG) who opened up about his career as an actor among other things. Below are the excerpts from the interview: ND: When did you first cut your teeth in the film industry? AG: I started acting in 2006 in a movie called Confession. I was called for an audition and I was chosen for the role.  ND: Did you have some kind of professional training in acting? AG: I never went to any film school. I have always felt like I could have done it better, after watching local or international productions. I challenge myself.  ND: Where do you find your inspiration and what drives you? AG: I am driven mostly by the desire to change people’s lives through art and my life itself, and the need to change people’s mindsets towards art. It is business that should be taken seriously. I am inspired by my wild imaginations and the people I live with. ND: What do you enjoy most about your acting career and what are some of the challenges you have encountered in your profession? AG: Because acting is one of my jobs, I enjoy doing it. I do it with my all and I enjoy seeing happy faces wherever I go. I am representing married men with no voice. The worst part of my career is I have no social life. People forget that celebrities are humans, too. Everything I do, paparazzi will be on my case and it becomes difficult to be comfortable out there. ND: How do you balance your work between music and acting? AG: I always make time for everything I have a passion for, so it becomes really easy to balance and, also, it is not every day that I am on set. So, if I am not acting, I will be in the studio making music. ND: What do you enjoy doing most between your two careers? AG: I enjoy both. But I believe television has more power. ND: You introduced a fashion label in 2014. Tell us more about it AG: I have a clothing label, but then I put it on hold because I do not want to do merchandise poorly, so I am taking my time so that I can do it the right way. I had a deal with the late Tinashe Chiweshe (Harare Tees boss), so now it is more like I am back at one. I have investors and it is going to be a walk in the park soon. ND: How has acting in Wenera changed your personal life? AG: Being one of the main characters has taught me to be more responsible, not only in film, but even off the stage. People look up to me and I have to be a good leader. I cannot be that Arnold people knew a couple of years ago. ND: Tell us more about some of the productions you have featured in. AG: I have featured in quite a number of productions including City of Dreams, The Forgotten Son, Fool’s Day, Confessions, Gupuro, The Maid and Revelations. ND: Many people believe the character you see on TV is the real personality. Does your acting reflect your personal lifestyle? AG: I am not bossy in other aspects of my life. It is only on TV. It is like I am living two lives. Boss T1 on TV and Arnold Gara in reality are two different characters. ND: Which local and international actors have inspired you? AG: I am inspired by African-American actor Denzel Washington. He is one of the greatest actors of all time. Locally, I am yet to find out, but I respect the hustle of Arnold Tongayi Chirisa and Leroy Gopal. ND: Can you say you have achieved what you intended to accomplish through film? AG: I cannot say I have achieved what I intended to accomplish yet. What I have only got so far is just a tip of the iceberg and I believe God has more in store for my gift. ND: When you look at the local film industry, to what extent do you think it compares with, say, the South African industry? AG: I personally think Wenera has done justice so far. I am sure it can sail in the same boat with South African soapies like Generations and Muvhango. It is only that South Africa has more resources. ND: How best do you think the industry can be improved? AG: The industry can only improve if people take it not only as arts, but as business because, at the end of the day, people need to put food on the table. So if it gets major support from the government, then it would be good to kick. ND: Would you say the local film industry is competitive in remunerating its players? AG: It is about to get there but it is still a problem. Actually, the entertainment industry as a whole has not been much appreciated by both the public and private sectors. But it would be fair to say it is fairly competitive. ND: What do you think the corporate world can do to help develop the industry? AG: The corporate world needs to invest and believe in the power of visibility. ND: Your last words? AG: The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person who is doing it. ND: Thank you for your time AG: You are welcome.