THROWING in the towel or just surrendering are all phrases that walk side by side with cowardice.
By STEVE NYAMBE Such a mantra, perception or belief cannot, in any way, take you to something magnificent in life. It is one of the drawbacks to any progressive movement in your life. It is common knowledge and a well-appreciated fact that cowards will always die many times before their actual death. The most dangerous death is when one loses a life game, while in actual fact he was supposed to be the real winner. This life demands nothing from out of this world. It requires nothing that needs to be shipped from afar so that it can be used in your life. No! Life calls just for nothing other than the best version of yourself.  Where you are and what you have achieved, all combined are not enough to properly paint a clear picture of your potential. There is still a lot that is supposed to come out of your life. There is still a lot waiting to ooze out of your mental faculties.   You have got the willpower You have got the willpower, capacity and you are fully capacited to change the face of this world. You can change it beyond imagined levels. Yes, I mean you. Because all that’s needed to turn the wheel to move, is in you. Remember even the Bible teaches that you are the highest form of God’s creation. You occupy the climax of God’s craftness of architecture.  All other things are dominated by you. You just have the dominion over them. You can dominate anything.  One speaker went further to even say, through the power in you one can create another world and go on to live in it. Nothing can stand on your highway to success. Nothing has enough power to stop you. You are unstoppable. You are unconquerable and untouchable. You are too strong to be brought down by any stronghold. Too hot to be cooled down by the ordinary temperatures. “Draw from the heart of suffering the means of inspiration and survival,” once advised Sir Winston Churchill.  Any suffering you face isn’t meant to harm you at all. Suffering is nature’s way to usher you into a brighter future. To take you to a higher glittering dimension. Suffering is a pure way to make you think beyond the horizons of comforts of laziness.
Remember, “The only way of finding the limits of the possible, is by going beyond them, into the impossible,” once thundered Arthur C Clarke.  G Jampolsky went further to illuminate this power stroke idea by saying, “Nothing is impossible, when we follow our inner guidance.” Knowing the inner dynamics of your diversified self is one step closer to your destiny.  Analyse this little story from former American President JF Kennedy. Kennedy once asked Doctor Werner Von Braun, “What will it take to build a rocket that would carry a man to the moon and safely bring him back to earth?”  With such a question you are made to think beyond your usual thinking ceiling cap. People might have expected so much from this well-orchestrated question.   Something different, quite a reasonable response was anticipated one that might have come from the learned lips of a rocket scientist. But it wasn’t so. Braun’s response However, Braun responded: “The will to do it.” The will to do it, is the appropriate emotional odyssey to accomplish greatness.  The still small voice That still small voice that sometimes whispers to you is all you need to listen to. Remember where there is a will there is a way, goes the old proverb. It can be done. Be blessed. Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach.  He can be contacted on +263 784 583 761 or his email: leadershiptouch@gmail.com