SHABANIE Mine technical manager Taku Shariwa has hailed the team’s supporters for standing behind the Chinda Boys in a season they struggled mainly due to financial difficulties. BY TERRY MADYAUTA Though the Zvishavane-based side are not yet safe from relegation as they need to beat Yadah to be sure, Shariwa believes the fans have carried them this far. The team has no premier sponsor, and survives from handouts from the supporters, most of whom are former Shabanie Mine workers, who have sacrificed to keep the club afloat and competing in the Premier Soccer League.  “We have come this far because of individuals who have sacrificed to make sure the club survives. Our fans from Maglas are our heroes, they have been behind this institution since its birth and supporting it has become hereditary.  “Their unwavering support and passion for the team has always been our strength. Our road this season has not been colourful, but because of our fans, we managed to realise our true potential,” Shariwa said. “They gave us confidence when we faced the biggest of challenges. I think we have some of the most passionate fans in this country, probably the best of all. We are not yet clear of relegation, but we believe we can survive. Our objective has been clear since the mid-season break and that is to survive relegation so we want to give our supporters an early Christmas gift by winning our last match,” he added. The Chinda Boys are on 13th position with 39 points, three clear of the relegation cut-off point and another point in their last league match against the already-secured Yadah FC would be enough for them to survive the chop. Shabanie Mine won the reverse fixture in Harare and would be hoping to complete a double over the Walter Magaya-owned side. They are also going into the match with their tails up, after winning their last two matches, beating Hwange and How Mine. In fact, Shabanie Mine are unbeaten in their last four matches, losing just once in the last 10 games — a run that has seen them climbing out of the relegation zone.