ZIMBABWE’S new President Emmerson Mnangagwa was officially sworn in yesterday amidst widespread local and international goodwill.  The fact that the National Sports Stadium was fully packed with people drawn from all walks of life and foreign dignitaries was a clear indication that so much hope has been pinned on the incoming President and he cannot afford to abuse such trust.
To his credit, Mnangagwa extended  an olive branch to those that have been fighting him, and following indications that he had ensured former President Robert Mugabe and his family security, it is quite clear that sins of the past must be forgiven. Crude retribution will not serve the best interests of this nation and its population. It is encouraging that the new President is alive to the urgent need to rebuild the country and our prayer is that he will be faithful to his proclamation that he will serve every Zimbabwean regardless of colour, creed, religion, tribe, totem or political affiliation. This is the true mark of a statesman. Many in this country are nursing wounds and broken limbs while others lost loved ones simply because they opted for political parties other than Zanu PF. The nation expects that such inhuman politics will be a thing of the past and the new President has an obligation to see to that.  We would also like to commend opposition leaders — MDC-T president Morgan Tsvangirai and National People’s Party president Joice Mujuru — for setting their political interests aside to attend the national event. Our fervent hope is that we are getting into a new era in which all political parties in the country will work together to serve the interests of the population rather than their own selfish pursuits of power. We have committed to memory Mnangagwa’s promise to be out faithful servant, protecting and promoting the rights and people of Zimbabwe. Beginning now, we are keen to see our new leader walks that talk because, as ancient wisdom says, talk is cheap. A new Zimbabwe demands a new culture in politics, economics and even social facets of life if we are to pull out of the current quagmire. Like we have indicated before, Mnangagwa must maintain his open-door policy to Zimbabweans from all walks of life and ensure opportunists circling around him do not separate him from reality. Creating or allowing a cabal of close friends and associates will no doubt destroy his vision, and will make it difficult for him to fulfil his aspirations and those of most citizens. We wish him well in his new endeavour, and call him to ensure media reforms are dealt with urgently to ensure a free Press which should checkmate the Executive.