DYNAMOS player Denver Mukamba  is refusing to shed off the bad boy image and has continued with his wayward behaviour despite sitting on a final warning. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA The midfielder was last week pardoned by the club’s disciplinary committee for numerous indiscretions which included going AWOL.  His partner in crime Lincoln Zvasiya was not so lucky, as he was kicked out of the club for similar imprudence. But the club yesterday reported the hugely-talented Mukamba is refusing to repent, as he has not reported for duty since he appeared before the disciplinary committee where he escaped with a caution. Team manager Richard Chihoro said yesterday they were not aware of the player’s whereabouts. “We don’t know where he is. He has not been attending training. Obviously we expected him to be part of the team, but he has not reported for training,” said Chihoro. The estranged player will now miss the club’s final game of the season, a clash against Chicken Inn at the National Sports Stadium on Saturday. If they win the match, and log leaders FC Platinum fail to beat Chapungu at Ascot Stadium, the Harare giants will be crowned champions. Mukamba’s future at the club is now looking unlikely to stretch beyond this season. “He has not reported for training like the manager has told you, but this is an issue we will discuss at the end of the season. Look, it’s just one game left before the end of the season, so we can only talk about that after the weekend match,” said Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa. Mukamba and Zvasiya went AWOL and subsequently missed the crucial trip to Ngezi Platinum a fortnight ago where the Glamour Boys were defeated 2-0 to fall further behind in the championship race. The duo also missed the 1-0 win over Chapungu as they were on suspension. They were then hauled before the club hierarchy to answer questions over their conduct where it was decided to part ways with Zvasiya, whose contract with the Harare giants runs out at the end of the year
Mukamba, who still has two more years left on his contract, was given a final warning after he told the management that he was unwell when he failed to show up at training. He did not make the trip to Bulawayo last weekend where Dynamos played Bulawayo City and Bantu Rovers as he had not been training with the team.  Mukamba was, however, expected to join the rest of his teammates at training this week ahead of their final match of the season. Dynamos are involved in a fierce tussle for the championship with leaders FC Platinum who are two points clear of the Glamour Boys. FC Platinum, who have an inferior goal difference to Dynamos, need a victory in their final match to be crowned champions of Zimbabwean football. Should FC Platinum beat Chapungu, it will be the first time since 1966 for a team from outside the two biggest cities Harare and Bulawayo to win the ultimate prize of domestic football. The last team from outside Harare or Bulawayo to win the championship was St Paul’s FC then based in Musami, Murewa.
It will also be the second time for FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza to win the championship having guided Monomotapa to glory in 2008. Castle Lager Premier Soccer League matchday 34 fixtures Saturday: Dynamos v Chicken Inn (National Sports Stadium), Chapungu v FC Platinum (Ascot), Shabanie Mine v Yadah (Maglas), Harare City v How Mine (Rufaro), ZPC Kariba v Hwange (Nyamhunga), Tsholotsho v Black Rhinos (Dulivhadzimo), Bulawayo City v Bantu Rovers (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum v Triangle (Baobab), Highlanders v Caps United (Barbourfields) 