Potential party poopers Chicken Inn and Chapungu will hog all the limelight as the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League winds up with big matches in Harare and Gweru tomorrow. BY HENRY MHARA In the capital, Dynamos face off with Chicken Inn at the National Sports Stadium, in what many, some few weeks ago, had predicted would be the title decider, as the two teams were part of a group of four teams that were tussling for the big prize in domestic football. But Chicken Inn and Ngezi Platinum somehow faltered along the way, leaving second-placed Dynamos and log leaders FC Platinum to fight for the title going into the final round of matches. The Glamour Boys will be looking to win this clash, which is obviously their biggest match this season, and hope that the match in Midlands at Ascot Stadium, also tomorrow, between FC Platinum and hosts Chapungu does not produce a win for the platinum miners. Such a scenario would see Dynamos clinching the title for the first time since 2014, while FC Platinum’s win guarantees them the title they have not won since their promotion to the top-flight some six years ago. The closest they came to winning it was in 2011, the year they were promoted, but somehow allowed Dynamos to claw back into the race, bridging a 13-point gap to eventually nick it on the last day of the campaign. The Zvishavane-based side would be hoping for a different turn of fortunes this time around, as they face their Midlands rivals. While FC Platinum would be expecting to get some favours from their provincial neighbours, Chapungu, who are playing for nothing other than pride, are singing from a different book. “We have to remain professional and play for the badge. FC Platinum should not expect any favours from us because they are not getting it. They will have to fight and earn the title if they are to win it. No one extended their sympathy to us when we were fighting for survival, so we will play our normal game,” said Chapungu coach Tendai Chikuni, who is an ex-FC Platinum coach. Chapungu currently occupy 10th position on the log standings and the best they can rise to should they win and other results go their way, is sixth position. “Our supporters and the executive have been very supportive and we can’t let them down now. We want to finish the season in the best possible way. If we win the match, we could finish in the top eight, which would be a huge achievement for us. We are preparing for the match like any other and we want to finish on a high,” Chikuni added. Chapungu will go into the match without Ian Nyoni and Collen Kwaramba, who are both suspended.
Matchday 34 fixtures Tomorrow: Dynamos v Chicken Inn (National Sports Stadium), Chapungu v FC Platinum (Ascot), Shabanie Mine v Yadah (Maglas), Harare City v How Mine (Rufaro), ZPC Kariba v Hwange (Nyamhunga), Tsholotsho v Black Rhinos (Dulivhadzimo), Bulawayo City v Bantu Rovers (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum v Triangle (Baobab), Highlanders v Caps United (Barbourfields)