JOHANNESBURG — Mamelodi Sundowns forward Khama Billiat says he will remain respectful to the club prior to his departure, while refusing to reveal where he’ll be heading next season.  Online It has been confirmed that the Zimbabwean international will be departing Chloorkop come the end of the season, after negotiations for a new deal reached a deadlock. Billiat has enjoyed an illustrious past four years at Sundowns, having won two Absa Premiership titles, the Nedbank and Telkom Knockout cups, as well as the Caf Champions League and Super Cup. Individually he was also named Footballer of the Season, Players’ Player of the Season and Midfielder of the Season at the PSL awards in 2016, before ending as runner-up to teammate Denis Onyango in the “Caf Player of the Year — based in Africa” category earlier this year. Now with his contract in its final few months, the 27-year-old looks to be ready to spread his wings and go in search of a new challenge come next season, but refused to give anything away when asked about his situation. “No, [I have] not yet [agreed on a new deal at Sundowns]. We are still talking,” said Billiat, before being alerted to the fact that coach Pitso Mosimane had prior to his arrival in front of the press confirmed that negotiations had already broken down. “Maybe I still have to go back to my agent and then get information, and then I will know,” he then defended. “I still want to play football until my contract finishes, I just want to play football.” He certainly showed his desire to play football when he bagged a brace to lead The Brazilians to a 2-0 victory over Absa Premiership champions Bidvest Wits on Tuesday evening. The former Ajax Cape Town attacker explained the importance of maintaining a professional approach despite his contractual issues, as he looks to to continue learning in his final few months at the Tshwane-based club. “It’s very important [to remain professional], because at the same time you don’t want to look like you’re disrespecting anyone,” he reasoned. “You’ve got teammates that have probably pushed you to where you are right now, and you’ve got the technical team who continues working with you. “I’ve learned a lot, and I’m still here, I can learn more. But it’s very important to show some respect.”