Former Highlanders striker Zenzo Moyo has said Dynamos striker Christian Epoupa’s performance so far this season has been ordinary and does not merit the Cameroonian forward making it onto the Castle Soccer Stars of the Year calendar. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA A panel of coaches from 18 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League teams, captains and selected football writers will converge in Harare on Tuesday to choose the outstanding players for this campaign following the last round of matches which will be played on Saturday. Epoupa, who joined Dynamos at the start of the season, has been one of the top performers for the Harare giants. He has scored 12 goals thus far and is the club’s leading scorer with one match remaining before the end of the campaign. He is four goals behind leading scorer Dominic Chungwa of Caps United, meaning he will need to score at least five goals to pip him to the Golden Boot award. But without his power and influence, the Glamour Boys have often struggled this season. However, Moyo, who won the Golden Boot in 2000 after scoring 22 goals, believes the Cameroonian should have, as a foreigner, gone beyond the call of duty and lit the domestic scene. He said he doubts Epoupa could make it on the Soccer Stars of the Year calendar.  Zenzo instead tipped FC Platinum forward Rodwell Chinyengetere, Chungwa as well as Kelvin Moyo among several others to fight for the top award. “The standard of football this season has improved compared to last season. It has been very competitive. There are a number of players who did very well like Chungwa, Chinyengetere and Kelvin Moyo. They played well and I think they could fight among themselves for the top award. There could be other several players who also stood out, but I personally think these three stood out,” Moyo said. Asked what he thought about Epoupa, he said. “For me, as a foreigner, Epoupa did not do enough. He should have distinguished himself better. Of course, he has scored 12 goals so far, but for a foreigner it’s not something that really warrants attention. He should have done better, but personally, I don’t think he should make it on the calendar,” Moyo added. Dynamos, who face Chicken Inn in their last match of the campaign, are involved in a tussle for the championship with FC Platinum, who make the trip to Ascot to face Chapungu on Saturday. FC Platinum lead the race with 69 points while Dynamos trail behind on 67 points. Other players who shone brightly and could be considered include the Dynamos pair of skipper Ocean Mushure and Tichaona Chipunza as well as the Ngezi Platinum trio of midfielder Tichaona Mabvura, defender Qadir Amini and striker Terrence Dzukamanja. Black Rhinos striker Lot Chiwunga is also a strong contender having scored 12 goals. Zimbabwean strikers are finding it difficult to emulate Zambian import Chewe Mulenga, who netted 24 goals in 1999 and Zenzo Moyo (22) goals in 2000 while former Chicken Inn striker Evans Chikwaikwai scored 23 goals while turning out for Njube Sundowns in 2008.