IT looked like Dynamos would end up as one of the also-rans when the 2017 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season was in its infancy. BY KEVIN MAPASURE  Then, it also looked like Caps United would be one of the contenders alongside FC Platinum. At some point, it looked like Black Rhinos would be among those in the fight for the title, but they faded away, as did Highlanders once they lost Roderick Mutuma and Prince Dube. Midway through the season, it never looked like things would pan out this way.  What a yoyo season it has been. Tomorrow sees its big shutdown. And what a way to close it up. One match to go and yet we still can’t pinpoint with confidence who really will be the kings. If only it was possible to watch two matches at the same time. Social media will be abuzz this afternoon as fans try to stay in touch with developments at Ascot Stadium, where Chapungu host table-toppers FC Platinum, as well as the National Sports Stadium, where Dynamos will be fighting for three points against Chicken Inn. This has been a season of many surprises. Dynamos have been the biggest surprise so far, after emerging from a difficult pre-season, where they lost some of their quality players, yet they have managed to be a force. Along the way, Dynamos and FC Platinum’s rivals dropped one by one. Champions Caps United lost interest in the title a long time ago, while Highlanders lost their way after a good first half of the season. Top-flight returnees Black Rhinos threatened a fairytale season and even sat at the top of the log, but it was only an empty threat. Ngezi Platinum Stars found themselves among the top sides and their belief grew with one good result after another. Their home form was particularly brilliant and they could complete the season without defeat at the Baobab Stadium. But they, too, slipped out of the race after the defeat to FC Platinum last week. It’s down to two teams on the final afternoon of the 2017 season. As Dynamos take on Chicken Inn, they know nothing short of a win will suffice for them to climb up the podium and claim the big glittery trophy. But they also need a favour from Chapungu if they are to get the glory. On the other hand, FC Platinum know that all they need is a win. As long as they win, they will have no interest in what will be happening at the National Sports Stadium. But anything else would open up doors for Dynamos. A draw for FC Platinum and a win for Dynamos means the latter are the champions on goal difference. If FC Platinum just manage to match Dynamos’ result, it will be a crowning moment for the rich Zvishavane side, which has been eluded by the title since their promotion into the topflight league in 2011. Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa has managed to squeeze every ounce of ability and commitment from his young side. Ocean Mushure has been providing the guidance on the pitch and today, he will be the one pushing the younger players so that they can reach their target. They come against a team full of experience. One that knows how to control such situations and importantly a team that is baggage-free as they have nothing to lose. Rahman Gumbo’s team can be the party poopers. They have dominated Dynamos in recent years and still want to continue their dominance. No favours for Dynamos. Chapungu have promised to play as if they were in the title race themselves. This is something that has given DeMbare a bit more hope.  But Norman Mapeza’s side is a very good team. In Rodwell Chinyengetere and Mkhokeli Dube, they have seasoned campaigners. In Mapeza, they have a good tactician.  A wonderful afternoon of football is almost guaranteed.