FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza has said that Chapungu will not allow themselves to be rolled over easily when the two teams clash tomorrow in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match that could give the platinum miners their first title. BY TERRY MADYAUTA Mapeza expects a tough match from Chapungu, who, despite being safe from relegation and out of the title contention, still have everything to fight for. FC Platinum are on the brink of coronation and only need to win tomorrow’s match for them to beat Dynamos to the title. With 69 points to their name, FC Platinum are two points clear of Dynamos, but if they fail to win at Ascot Stadium tomorrow, Dynamos could snatch it if they manage to collect three points against Chicken Inn. “It’s for us to win because we are in control. Only determination and strong dedication will see us win this long race,” Mapeza said at his weekly Press conference yesterday. “We have been playing well and the game against Chapungu on the last day is not going to be easy, so we have to guard against complacency. It’s the last game and no one wants to lose. Even our opponents will be playing for maximum points because every team wants to end their season on a high note.”  Chapungu have never been an easy ride for FC Platinum and in their first meeting this season, the Zvishavane-based platinum miners got a hard-earned 1-0 win. But Mapeza’s side were booted out of the Chibuku Super Cup by the same team after losing 1-0 to the Tendai Chikuni-coached side in a match that was played at Mandava Stadium. For the second successive season, Chapungu host potential champions on the last day of the league programme, with Caps United claiming the title at Ascot on the last day of the 2016 season. After FC Platinum finished twice as bridesmaids in 2011 and 2016, this year, the platinum miners are in total control of their own destiny and they can either seize the opportunity or throw it away. The Zvishavane-based side can become the first team outside of Bulawayo and Harare to be crowned league champions. If Pure Platinum prevail, Mapeza will have two league championship successes after he led Monomotapa to glory in 2008.