GOSPEL musician Togarepi Chivaviro’s hit song, Ebenezer-Tirimunyasha, became one of the dominant soundtracks of the revolution that ousted former President Robert Mugabe as its theme projects a brighter future for Zimbabwe. BY JAIROS SAUNYAMA The trending musician has now been invited to sing at Emmerson Mnangagwa’s presidential inauguration today. Chivaviro, who is arriving this morning from his base in South Africa, said his team was ecstatic about the honour. “It’s a huge occasion for us, very big indeed, especially as our songs were played throughout this transitional process,” he said. “It makes us feel that we are also playing a part in the making of a new Zimbabwe. We are honoured.” Ebenezer-Tirimunyasha was one of the songs that dominated the airwaves — both on radio and television — as it was played constantly throughout last week as the country ushered in a new political dispensation that is widely expected to help ease the punishing economic crisis that has impoverished the majority of Zimbabweans over the years. It is a song that acknowledges how God has borne people throughout a difficult journey before getting to their promised land. Chivaviro said next week he was going to release a new track, Matishamisa, inspired by the current political developments in the country. The track, which features South Africa gospel music sensation Hlengiwe Mhlaba, will be accompanied by a video. Chivaviro said the song speaks of joy that the people have and this resonates well with the mood in the country. “Matishamisa is a celebratory song that God dropped into my spirit. It speaks about the joy that one has when they have achieved something. We had set to record it together with Hlengiwe as part of my 2018 release. However, we felt it speaks directly to the mood in the country right now hence the decision to drop it on December 1,” Chivaviro said. Asked how he felt when the hit track Ebenezer was used as a celebratory song during the recent political saga, Chivaviro said the song is the right one for a nation that is celebrating. “Anyone who has gone through a tough time can easily relate to the song, so, if Zimbabweans are celebrating as a nation it is the right song for them as well,” he said. Chivaviro stole the hearts of mourners during a performance at Shuvai Mahofa’s burial at the National Heroes Acre in August. Mahofa — an aunt to the musician was a close ally of
Mnangagwa.