NEWLY-CROWNED Premier Soccer League champions FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza has expressed shock and disbelief after Soccer Stars of the Year selectors overlooked goalkeepers in choosing the 11 finalists who made it onto the calendar this year. BY MUNYARADZI MADZOKERE It is the first time in the history of Soccer Stars selection that there is no room for a goalminder despite some impressive performances from the likes of Chicken Inn’s Elvis Chipezeze, Wallace Magulane (FC Platinum) and Tonderai Mateyaunga (Dynamos) between the sticks. Mapeza may have been fighting for Magulane, who deposed 2016 Goalkeeper of the Year Petros Mhari midway through the season and went on to keep 10 clean sheets in 13 matches. “I am shocked,” Mapeza said at the conclusion of the selection process at Mandel Training Centre in the capital yesterday
“Even if we have goalkeepers who were conceding 20 goals in each and every game, you can’t tell me that we can’t find one good goalkeeper to make it to the calendar,” the two-time championship-winning coach said. “I am not an expert in this, but I thought after coming up with 11 in-field footballers, we should have removed one player and included a keeper with the most number of votes. Even if there were only four guys who voted for Chipezeze or whoever, then he should be among the soccer stars. I do not think we cannot have a goalkeeper among the best players the whole year,” he added. Chipezeze, who was voted the best goalkeeper two years ago after leading Chicken Inn to the title, was a surprise omission from the finalists after managing a whopping 18 clean sheets this season alone. Magulane also had impressive statistics conceding just three goals in the 14 matches he played for the champions from Zvishavane. Dynamos goalkeeper Mateyaunga also deserves special mention for his 14 clean sheets from 31 outings, playing for a new-look side which was widely expected to struggle, but pushed for the title until the last game. Yet none on the aforementioned were deemed deserving of a place among the soccer star finalists. However, one of them will walk away with the Goalkeeper of the Year accolade which will be announced on the awards night on December 8. While FC Platinum pair Kelvin Moyo and Rodwell Chinyengetere made it onto the calendar, Mapeza was also miffed at the exclusion of star midfielder Winston Mhango. “I am happy for Kelvin and Rodwell, but I thought Winston did very well this season.  However, the votes have spoken, we can’t change it. I still think that he was probably the best player in our team,” he said.