AT the end of 2016, I mentioned that 2017 was going to be a year of quantum leap. God being faithful to His Word has seen to it that it becomes so.  By Erasmus Makarimayi Testimonies to that effect have been coming and evidence celebrated even at national level. Those of you who interact with me on various platforms will remember that last month I began to reveal God’s heart to those under my apostolic reach that 2018 is going to be a year of settlement.  I will explain in detail in the future, but suffice to say that what we quantum-leaped into shall be properly put in detail and be settled.  Things shall be established and allocated in the multifarious spheres of our lives. God, who called you, is faithful and is bringing you nearer and nearer to what is stable and satisfying. We take this opportunity to reflect in the Mirror that is the Bible at personal level to enjoy this.  Oftentimes when the Word is preached we miss our portion because we would be thinking of someone else who we suppose should benefit more than us.  Spiritual growth often evades us because we’re busy shovelling the message to others. As the year draws to a close, let’s do introspection. This will help us harvest or realise what lies ahead of us for our enjoyment.  As we position ourselves, the Word will bear abundant fruit in us. Remember Christianity is liberty and not bondage. The grace of God works in and through us as we willingly surrender to this power. We look unto Jesus to see the full force of the grace of God taking effect in us.  Hebrews 12:2 teaches, “Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.” We look away from the law towards grace fully aware that we’re not condemned and we’re not guilty. One interesting thing to note is when you go to the mirror, you see your reflection not someone else’s image. As you read, study and meditate on the Bible, please allow it to minister to you. The image that comes out of the mirror is not your neighbour’s but yours.  Husbands are quick to see where the Bible exhorts wives to submit to their husbands. Wives quickly run to show their husbands where they (husbands) are instructed to love their wives. Please look into the mirror and see yourself because change begins with you.  They say change begins with me, change begins with you and it begins with us. It’s our collective responsibility which requires individual introspection.  As new creation or born again believers we see Jesus in the mirror and we’re transformed and updated accordingly. 2 Corinthians 3:18 points, “And all of us, as with unveiled face [because we] continued to behold [in the Word of God] as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are constantly being transfigured into His very own image in ever increasing splendor and from one degree of glory to another; [for this comes] from the Lord [Who is] the Spirit.” You’re getting better. A special message to fellow Zimbabweans in this unfolding new era and age.  We will enjoy this yawning dispensation if we choose to be open and refrain from hypocrisy. Jesus taught in Matthew 7:3-5, “[3] And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother’s eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?   Let’s be sincere. We choose not to ask love from our neighbours and those who choose to hate us and be our enemies, but show them love. That way they will love us back.  The words of Jesus in Matthew 7:12 inspire us; “,Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.” Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. l All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated.
Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org
Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632