BY WINSTONE ANTONIOTanza Center in ChitungwizaJah Prayzah on Sunday serenades revellers at Tanza Center in Chitungwiza alongside his student Tahle of his Military Touch Movement stable and Afro-jazz musician Ashton Tapiwa Nyahora, popularly known as Mbeu on the showbiz circuit, backed by his Mhodzi Tribes. Pakare Paye Arts CentrePakare Paye Arts Center in Norton tomorrow host the Father s Day concert featuring Afro-jazz musician Ashton Tapiwa Nyahora, popularly known as Mbeu on the showbiz circuit, backed by his Mhodzi Tribes and urban groovers Trevor Dongo.Jazz 24/7Several musicians across genres among them sungura musician Peter Moyo, dancehall singer Seh Calaz, Progress Chipfumo, Baba Harare, urban groover ExQ, Lady Storm and Afro Jazz sensation Gary T will on Sunday converge at Jazz 24/7 and join Andy Muridzo celebrates his 25 birthdayBar RougeDendera musician Sulumani Chimbetu and his Orchestra Dendera Kings tomorrow entertain guest at Bar Rouge located at LongCheng Plaza in Belvedere, HarareExtra Mile Leisure SpotChimurenga fusion artiste-cum-mbira player Nelson Tswatswa will tomorrow launch his fifth album, a 12-track effort titled Swerengoma at Extra Mile Leisure Spot in Harare. Tswatswa backed by his Rainbow band has released previous albums Dai,Pamushika-Shika, Sango and Dande Mutande. Sungura maestro Alick Macheso, Progress Chipfumo and Hweza Masango are expected to grace the launch as guest artistes.Jazz 24/7 Sam Dondo backed by his Impala Subway Crooners tonight entertain guest at Jazz 24/7. Ladies will gain free entry at the concert before 10pm.Dandaro InnPamela Gonyeti Zulu backed by her Horsepower band tonight performs at Dandaro Inn, Harare Showgrounds. Gonyeti will be sampling some songs off her forthcoming second album Madhin adhin ali, to be launched end of this month.Tiringindi Gardens, Mt DarwinZora maestro, Leonard Karikoga Zhakata starts his weekend shows tonight in Mashonaland Central with a performance at Tiringindi Gardens in Mt. Darwin before he takes his acts to Shamva tomorrow to entertain revellers at Tippaz Bar and Night Club. Zhakata is using the shows to sample songs from his forthcoming album Mutungadzese Extended. Cape to Cairo, BulawayoMbira queen Hope Masike tonight travels to Bulawayo for a performance at Cape to Cairo located at corner Robert Mugabe Street and Leopold Takawira Avenue. At the show, the well-travelled Masike will share the stage with Bulawayo finest in the form of Khuliyo, Djembe Monks, Iyasa and Jeys Marabini.