THE late Senegalese filmmaker Ousmane Semb ne, is set to be celebrated across Africa and the Diaspora from June 9 to 11 through the free screening of his award-winning documentary, Semb ne! as part of the Semb ne across Africa project. BY ARTS REPORTERThe screening in Harare has been scheduled for TV Yangu Studios at corner First Street and Jason Moyo Avenue at 3pm. Ousmane Semb ne, Ousmane Semb ne, Project director, Jason Silverman of Galle Ceddo Projects, said in a statement the initiative is being done in conjunction with several African institutions as a three-day series of free public screenings, house parties and free streaming of the award-winning documentary film that celebrates the life and work of the father of African cinema. Silverman said the screening of film which made it into the seven best-of-2015 lists, including a top-ten-of-2015 notice from New York magazine, has been confirmed in over 30 countries by Monday this week. All screenings are provided free of charge. Funding is provided from the Ford Foundation and the Sundance Institute, and through grassroots efforts, Silverman said.The screenings will also feature post-film discussions while seminars will be held in Dakar, Senegal, Ouagadougo in Burkina Faso and Conkary in Guinea. The project is motivated by Sembene s desire unfulfilled in his lifetime after 50 years of focused work to return African stories to the African people, Silverman said, adding that this was part of decriminalising African culture.He said starting with his first film, Borom Sarret (1962), Semb ne set out to use movies as what he called an evening school for Africans. His works revisited history from African perspectives, called out corrupt leaders and celebrated what he called the heroes of the everyday. Semb ne spent 50 years making films and writing books in a tireless and forceful attempt to reorient Africans after generations of colonisation, he said. Unfortunately, 10 years after his death, Semb ne a true hero of cinema and of self-empowerment remains unknown to most young Africans. The documentary film s director and Semb ne s official biographer, Samba Gadjigo, said the project is meant to inspire those working for African progress and to inject Semb ne s legacy of engaged, empowering and progress-minded storytelling back into the African consciousness.