AFTER 15 years in the music industry, prolific gospel music producer Blessing Masanga remains unknown to many largely because he is a behind-the-scenes man but his magic shines through works of songs including Rudo by Pah Chihera and Prince Musarurwa, Zodzo by Munyaradzi Munodawafa, Ebenezer and Maranatha by Togarepi Chivaviro and Takesure Zamar s Tinosimudza Maoko. BY JAIROS SAUNYAMABlessing MasangaMasanga, who attributes his success to hard work, has also worked with Arnold Mlalazi on Tula Moya and Alfred Nenguwo on Ndomirira.The 33-year-old producer has worked with many other established and upcoming musicians, that include Noel Zembe, Pelagia Mawonera, Hannah Chikosi and Gamuchirai Magadzire at Allan Dzobo s Artisan Studios in Harare, where he is employed as a producer.Masanga, however, seems unfazed with his success. All I can say is the music industry is a journey, my motto every day is: Let s inspire before we expire . When God gives us the season to do what we can, let s utilise the opportunity and do our best, he told NewsDay Weekender recently. Masanga started off his career as a producer in 2007 when he worked with Mlalazi on the latter s album. I started doing music at a young age after someone brought a guitar to our house. I would learn to play it and easily picked tunes. This surprised my parents, he said.He said although he was still at school, the passion for music ran deep and he used every opportunity he got to hone his music skills although at that time he never imagined that he would become a top-notch, sought-after music producer. I was going to school, but my passion was music. Then I would play in church, at revivals and conferences and I continued to perfect my skills, he said.He recalled that it was only in 2007 that he broadened his horizons and ventured into recording music productions.In recognition of his work as an astute producer, Masanga was named the Best Producer during the last edition of the Permican Awards. What I can say is that music is a gift. I cannot say I went to school to become a producer. It is an inborn thing. I worked with Chipawo to attain my Diploma in Arts. It was a way to boost the gift I already had so that I do everything with knowledge and excellence, he said.He started working with Artisan Studios in 2008, but recently opened his own music production house called Bishstudios in Hatfield, Harare where he has started doing his own jobs.