Shabanie Mine . . . . (1) 1 FC Platinum . . . . . (1) 1Premiership returnees, Shabanie Mine refused to be cowed into submission, trading leather for leather with their more illustrious opponents FC Platinum in yesterday s Zvishavane derby at Maglas Stadium, which as often, producing a thrilling spectacle. BY MUKUDZEI CHINGWERE FC Platinum have made tremendous investment into their project and fears were that this derby, arguably the country s liveliest, will die due to the Chinda Boys stagnation.Those fears were almost confirmed when Talent Chawapiwa gave the platinum miners a third-minute lead and threatened to run away with it, but Wellington Taderera ensured a point for his side with a leveller in the 15th minute.The home side came into the match bouyed by their recent form having developed a penchant of punching above their weight, so far this season where they have avoided defeat against the country s Big Three in Dynamos, Highlanders and Caps United.The away side also came into the match with their tails up, with a proud record of being the only team in the elite division yet to taste defeat, and that form needed to be preserved to keep in sight with the leading teams. The two sides walked out of a sold out and electrifying Maglas and the players did not disappoint, as they produced a brilliant performance that kept both sets of supporters on the edge of their seats.FC Platinum coach, Norman Mapeza, was cautious with his team selection, throwing three midfield grafters Simon Shoko, Gerald Takwara and Winston Mhango into the starting line up, at a cost of any recognised gunslinger, with Rodwell Chinyengetere, who has been playing more as a central midfielder, deployed to lead the attack.Mapeza s dual role as the national team coach and FC Platinum has been a concern with some sections of the team believing the former Warriors skipper will be distracted.However, his number two at FC Platinum, Lizwe Sweswe, said everything has been smooth sailing at the club. It was a good game of football and I think a draw was a fair result for both teams.When asked if Mapeza s involvement with the team is not disturbing his work at the club, Sweswe said: No, it is not a problem at all. When he is away he gives us the programme to work with and we follow that so everything is in order. Shabanie Mine coach, Takesure Chiragwi, who was in charge for Shabanie in this fiery derby for the first time, was happy with the result and also lauded his charges for the fighting spirit they showed throughout. It was a good game of football and a draw was a fair result. We conceded early in the match but I am happy with how the guys responded after the goal, Chiragwi said.