CAPS United skipper Dennis Dauda has raised the stakes even higher for his team s Caf Champions League Group B match against Al Ahly Tripoli here at the Stade Ta eb Mhiri, tonight, after trolling the Libyan giants by describing them as an ordinary side who were lucky to get a win in the reverse fixture in Harare early this month. FROM TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA IN SFAX, Tunisia The Green Machine were thoroughly beaten 4-2 on the day, but the defender has described the result as a fluke, saying his team buckled because it was missing a number of key players, including himself.And as the two teams prepare for this must-win match for both sides, Dauda reckons that his team is too strong compared to the opponents, and are more determined to get a positive result that would take their campaign back on track. From my observations of the way they played in the first leg, they are a very ordinary side. We are determined to win this one just like they did in Harare. That defeat, if anything, has given us the steel. It has made us stronger and we are overflowing with confidence, Dauda said. They were lucky to beat us in Harare. We had the misfortune of having most of us injured for the match. They took advantage of that. But now we have a full squad ready to face them. Apart from Dauda, other players who missed the first match against Tripoli, but have recovered and made the trip to Tunis are goalkeeper Edmore Sibanda and Ronald Pfumbidzai.However, Tafadzwa Rusike, the star of their 2-1 win over USM Alger and second choice goalkeeper Jorum Muchambo, did not make the trip through injuries. The Zimbabwe champions need a win of any margin in this match, which kicks off at 11pm Zimbabwe time, to reclaim second place in the group to keep alive their dream of reaching the quarter-finals of the tournament.Caps are currently bottom of Group B with three points, behind Tripoli and Algeria s USM Alger who have four each, while Egyptian giants Zamalek top the pile with five. That means another defeat for Caps, who have already lost to Zamalek, will be catastrophic to their chances of progressing to the second round, but a win here and they move to second position on the log, regardless of the results in the other group match between Zamalek and USM Alger in Algiers. We are alive to the fact that a defeat will virtually end our interest in this tournament. We have reached this stage through hard work and team spirit and we keep growing in confidence, Dauda added.Dauda said he is privileged to lead a great group of players who are focused: It s a great group that is self-motivated and hungry for success. As a leader, it becomes easy to work with such. There is this sense of belonging and a common objective. Everyone is fighting to achieve the set objective and we are looking forward to the match. Caps United coach Lloyd Chitembwe, who insists on a high pressing tempo game that will close space, is set to start with the returning goalkeeper Sibanda with Dauda and Justice Jangano at the heart of the defence while Pfumbidzai and Zvirekwi will operate as wing backs. In midfield Devon Chafa is likely to partner either Joel Ngodzo or Moses Muchenje with Ronald Rooney Chitiyo and Phineas Bhamusi expected to operate as left and right wingers respectively, while Abbas Amdiu and Dominic Chungwa are set to be deployed as target men upfront.Caps United probable Line-up: E Sibanda, R Pfumbidzai, J Jangano, D Dauda, H Zvirekwi, D Chafa, J Ngodzo, R Chitiyo, P Bhamusi, A Amidu, D Chungwa