EXPELLED MDC-T Senator, Matson Hlalo who has joined the People s Democratic Party (PDP) has blamed fear and cowardice gripping Zimbabweans as the main reasons why they have failed to remove Zanu PF from power. By NQOBANI NDLOVUHlalo was officially introduced as a new PDP member on Wednesday during a press conference held in Bulawayo.He was expelled for dragging his former MDC-T party to the courts in his challenge for the post of Bulawayo chairperson.The Senator also took a dig at the opposition leadership, describing it is as weak to lead a revolution oblivious of the fact that several opposition figures have been arrested and beaten up in anti-government demonstrations. The problem with our people is fear, and cowardice and that is one of the reasons why we have failed to remove (President Robert) Mugabe s Zanu PF. There is also a weak leadership in the opposition, but I have no doubt in the capabilities of Biti (PDP leader Tendai). Are we prepared to die for a better tomorrow? We do not need cowards in this revolution, he said. Hlalo was ready to take the bullet in anti-government demonstrations or any other initiatives aimed at toppling Mugabe.The State security organs, particularly the police have descended heavily on anti-government demonstrators. Several people have been jailed, while others bear permanent scars from severe beatings.The country has also witnessed violent episodes since independence such as the Gukurahundi mass killings in Midlands and Matabeleland regions, Operation Murambatsvina and during past elections, the 2008 being a case in point episodes that have left several thousands dead, nursing injuries or traumatised.Hlalo appealed to disgruntled erstwhile colleagues in the MDC-T to dump the Morgan Tsvangirai led party and join the PDP. I appeal to colleagues that I have been working with, especially in the Bulawayo province. I know that we have had congresses whose results have left many disgruntled. I am appealing to them to join the PDP and we re-start what we used to do, Hlalo said.Hlalo had running court battles with MDC-T Bulawayo chairperson, Gift Banda where he was challenging results of the 2014 congress. Tsvangirai endorsed Banda as the MDC-T Bulawayo chairperson despite a High Court ruling barring him from assuming the post. Hlalo sought an interdict barring Banda from assuming the post, citing violence, vote-buying and reports of ballot-stuffing.