It important to ensure that all solicited public-private partnerships (PPP) opportunities are advertised. It is most important that such advertisements attract responses that culminate into completion in the selection process of the right partner. PURCHASING &#038; SUPPLY: NYASHA CHIZUSome countries use specific legal provisions to deal with PPP projects that receive sole bids. Countries like Kenya, Peru and Senegal do not prescribe specific procedures for awarding of contracts after receiving sole bids.Three issues then become very important to achieve this objective. Initially, the advert must be published through the right media. This is like the use of appropriate fishing method to catch the right fish. The publication must also reach the intended target, meaning that it has to be directed to the right market. It will not make sense fishing for seafood in freshwater; seafood is available from the appropriate sources. The third element is that the advertisement must be attractive to the-would-be respondent. The time allowed for preparation and submission of bids must be reasonable and at the same time adequate.Given the complexity of the PPP procurement process, participants need to be granted enough time to prepare their proposals. The preparation of proposals requires that bidders conduct some due diligence to prepare high quality proposals. A limited response time, therefore, deters potential participants and therefore, notifications of PPP opportunities should define the submission deadlines, with such considerations. Some countries use the regulatory framework to set the minimum time limits for the submission period. Those without clear regulatory provisions leave the procuring entity with absolute discretion to determine the bidding period. Procuring entities in such circumstances can legally limit the time granted to prepare proposals in such a way that competition would be discouraged or even intentionally driven out of the PPP procurement process.Most countries that are using PPPs to provide infrastructure use the regulatory provisions to stipulate the minimum bidding periods. Use of regulatory framework to stipulate the minimum period is also not enough, there must be consideration of the adequacy of the minimum time stipulated in the laws for the provision to be useful. Stipulating the minimum time also assists potential bidders to predict the process.One challenge in all procurement processes, including the procurement in PPPs, is a process that closes with a sole bid or no bids at all. The root of such situations mainly traces back to the issues discussed in the beginning; was the advert appropriately published. Competition is crucial to obtain value for money in a procurement process. Ultimately, on top of all assessments conducted during the preparation of a PPP, potential success of the project is subject to the final market test during the procurement process. Receipt of a sole bid put the procuring entity in a quandary. It raises concerns about whether the project is indeed a candidate for a PPP. Secondly, if the assessment of whether a project is indeed a candidate for PPP is appropriately answered, the question that will be difficult to answer is whether the sole bid will provide value for money.Various systems treat sole bids differently. There are some laws that automatically direct re-tendering of project that receive a sole bid. Most systems considered the process valid subjecting the sole bid to the total evaluation process. This is many instances is followed by a due diligence process to ensure that the sole bid is in full compliance with requirements of the project and that the offer is competitive in both the value and associated cost.Some countries use specific legal provisions to deal with PPP projects that receive sole bids. Countries like Kenya, Peru and Senegal do not prescribe specific procedures for awarding of contracts after receiving sole bids. However, in Africa, Tanzania and Tunisia do not allow award of a PPP contract following receipt of a sole bid. They direct automatic retendering unlike others that simply states that sole bids are acceptable as long as all terms and conditions are met. Egypt s regulatory framework is a bit advanced, it goes further to specify conditions and processes for accepting sole bids. A sole bid may only be accepted through a decision by a competent authority based on the recommendations of the evaluation committee, after the approval of the supreme committee for PPP affairs only if three conditions exist.These conditions are: if the public interest does not allow for retendering procedures, if retendering would be futile and if the sole bid is technically acceptable and meets specifications of the project. Nigeria allows instead for direct negotiation with the sole bidder if the solution is technically and financially advantageous.All these issues can be addressed if the regulatory provisions with respect to advertising are adequate, opportunities for sole bids would then be very limited.Nyasha Chizu is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply writing in his personal capacity. Feedback: nya.chizu@gmail.com Skype: nyasha.chizu