CHICKEN INN . . . . . . . . . (1) 2 ZPC KARIBA . . . . . . . . . . . 0CHICKEN Inn continued with their winning streak to mount pressure on the log-leaders, when they dispatched visiting ZPC Kariba in a captivating Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Luveve Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELEChicken Inn coach Rahman GumboDespite playing below par in the first half, Chicken Inn scored an early goal in the third minute through Guide Goddard and managed to soak up the pressure from ZPC Kariba, who had a spectacular show, but failed to find the net.ZPC Kariba goalkeeper, Elisha Nechitukire failed to deal with a shot by midfielder Innocent Mucheneka and Goddard pounced and blasted the ball into an empty net.Mucheneka then converted from the spot seven minutes from the final whistle after substitute Thomas Kadyaridzire was fouled inside the box by Nechitikure, as he attempted to go for a header.In the process, Nechitukire crashed onto his defender Tawanda Nyamwande, who could been seen still receiving treatment on the ZPC Kariba bench way after the match had ended.It was Chicken Inn s fourth victory on the trot, pushing the Gamecocks to third with 24 points, two behind leaders Black Rhinos and Ngezi Platinum Stars with latter facing a resurgent Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium tonight.Coach, Rahman Gumbo was obviously excited. It was more of a balanced game. ZPC were in total control in the first half, but they were not good at defending set pieces and they gifted us that goal. We started high in the second half. We difused the situation when we brought in Thabani (Goredema) and cut off their supply lines. It s good that we have turned the corner. I think we are doing the right thing and the future looks bright for the team. Our ambitions are still on track, he said.ZPC Kariba s Never Tigere, Talent Chamboko, Raphael Manuvire and Francisco Zekumbawire were unlucky to have failed to get a goal after having a splendid first half.The power utility side s gaffer, Sunday Chidzambwa was disappointed his boys could not carry that display into the second half. In the first half we played reasonably well and conceded a simple goal ,,but we were not there in the second half. Chicken Inn controlled the game in that half. My boys were not fighting. It was just a matter of attitude. Why did they not continue from where they left? We have to work and start picking up points away from home, he said.TEAMS:CHICKEN INN: E Chipezeze, P Bernard, D Lunga, M Jackson, T Hadebe (T Kadyaridzire 61 ), G Goddard, C Matawu, C Samakweri, I Mucheneka, G Majika (T Goredema 41 ), D Nyandoro (I Lawe 82 )ZPC KARIBA: E Nechitukire, B Zuberi, M Kunyarimwe, A Chiveya, T Nyamandwe, T Munyanduri, N Tigere, T Chamboko, D Chakupe (S Makawa 68 ), R Manuvire (G Mangani 74 ), F Zekumbawire (L Fiyado 74 )</strong>