If there is a constant that has remained a sticking feature of the Zimbabwean election story in the last decade-and-a-half it is the certain unpreparedness of those tasked with the herculean task of ensuring the nation s will is respected in choosing national leaders. It would also appear the emergence of a robust opposition at the turn of the century just made the problem worse. guest column: Learnmore ZuzeZec chairperson Rita MakarauPerhaps going into history one would find that these irregularities have existed since the 80s only becoming more noticeable today because of the political consciousness defining the current generation. From the voters roll, which perennially remains in a shambles, to the turning away of supposed voters, the list is just endless. Among the shockers that one can meet perusing through the voters roll are names of deceased people, to mention but a single glitch. It is not uncommon to find names of people who died in the late 90s appearing on the current voters roll. It is no wonder why access to this voters roll is as difficult as finding ice in hell. Many will recall how opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai cried foul after he went on to participate in the disputed 2013 elections without getting a chance to set sight on the closely guarded document. In most democracies, a voters roll is a common document accessible to everyone willing to see it. There should be no secrecy or anything that remotely sounds fraudulent about it; the voters roll is a crucial determinant for future generations. It is the document which facilitates hope and change to those who differ politically from current establishments.It is quite sad, nonetheless, seeing as it is that only a few things sound right insofar as this crucial detail is concerned in Zimbabwe. I will not, however, continue to belabour the obvious, but, instead, will focus on a key area currently being overlooked in the call for electoral reforms: the assisted vote. In the 2013 election, inexplicably large numbers of voters were assisted to vote. Some sectors of society attributed these numbers to intimidation and resultant fear. This phenomenon which characterises the Zimbabwean electoral process makes use of fear. The approaching 2018 election has turned up the volume on the call for electoral reforms. Some strongly believe that meaningful reforms before the elections are the single most decisive factor that can bring about change, while others believe it takes more than pen and paper to get rid of Zanu PF hegemony in Zimbabwe. A key area that few have bothered to highlight in the call for electoral reforms is the pressing need to have a watertight law on assisted voters. Most probably, the figure that would result from a closer scrutiny of the fraud arising from assisted votes would shock the nation. The manner in which assisted votes have been handled in previous elections certainly does little to inspire confidence. With the deeply ingrained fear factor in Zimbabwe, it naturally follows that the bulk of the assisted vote is simply a vote in favour of the current administration. Honestly, how do we expect a blind voter in Uzumba-Maramba-Pfungwe to freely tell the assister to cast a true vote of their choice? How do the lame vote without their vote being at the mercy of those assisting? This is a crucial vote that deserves attention.What benumbs the mind is that there isn t much rocket science in ensuring that at least blind people can cast their ballot secretly. It is simple: Blind people should be given braille material so that they can vote without assistance. In the case of those with poor sight (and these are estimated at 23% of the voting population), bigger ballot papers are a necessity. There isn t much required, but this appears to be asking for a lot from the current administration. As far as possible, the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) should devote time to more comprehensive voter education programmes to improve people s understanding of key electoral requirements to reduce numbers of assisted voters. Assisted voters should never account for a huge percentage as is the current case making the whole process liable to manipulation.Assisted voters should only be aided by trusted persons as opposed to the previous systems were suspicious characters were made to assist the blind and the elderly. Mechanisms should be put in place as is the norm elsewhere in the world where illiterate voters use the thumb, for instance, to mark the ballot papers. Surely, there is no objectivity whatsoever when the rural folk have to tell a third party of the vote of their choice. It is apparent the assisted vote is a suppressed vote.The onus lies squarely on Zec, palpably sleeping on the wheel, to push for a foolproof law that safeguards the assisted vote. The blind voter, the illiterate and invalid persons reserve the right to vote in secret as everyone else. The first precaution should be the insertion of provisions in the sections dealing with registration of voters allowing those persons to indicate what form of assistance they will require, so that they can vote in secret.A concrete law setting out parameters for the assisted vote is as much an important part of electoral reforms and the powers-that-be should take this into account.Learnmore Zuze is a law officer and writes in his own capacity. E-mail: lastawa77@gmail.com