WARRIORS benefactor and Prophetic Healing and Deliverance Ministries (PHD) leader Walter Magaya was impressed by the team s behaviour in camp and their performance in the 3-0 win over Liberia in a 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) Group G opening qualifier on Sunday and has pledged to continue supporting the team in their bid to qualify for the tournament s finals. BY HENRY MHARAThe Warriors paid homage to Walter Magaya at his church after Sunday&#8217;s match against Liberia to thank him for his sponsorship and the prophet reciprocated the gesture by giving each player $1 000 as a token of appreciationMagaya accommodated the team at his $8 million Yadah Village facility in Harare for two weeks during the build-up to the match, where he provided them with training facilities and also took care of all their camping needs. Their stay here was perfect, we housed them in our VVIP section and we never received any complaints. We have asked for their feedback, and they said they enjoyed the experience, and are willing to stay here every time they are called for camp. The team was accommodated at a holy place and they behaved very well. They could have tarnished the image of the church premises, but they were on their best behaviour and that should be commended. They are mature people and we will not hesitate to help them in future, PHD overseer Admire Mango said yesterday. This is a good relationship with Zifa and we want it to continue because we feel it s a perfect match. The team did well, winning the match comfortably so obviously we want to be associated with something good. I m sure this relationship will continue because, as we speak, the president of Zifa (Philip Chiyangwa) and the Prophet (Magaya) are in a meeting to conclude all the details. We provided them food, accommodation, training facilities and transport for free and the prophet has just given the players a bonus for their win and good behaviour here. After the Sunday win, the Warriors paid homage to Magaya at his church to thank him for the sponsorship and the prophet reciprocated the gesture by giving each player $1 000 as a token of appreciation for their good behaviour in camp and their brilliant performance in their victory over the West Africans at the National Sports Stadium. They came to church after the match to thank the prophet for the support. They said a few words of appreciation to him and the church. We were humbled by and were very happy with their gesture. And that shows good leadership by the captain of the team, the coach and the Zifa board. They lifted the country s flag high and they deserve to be thanked for that Warriors captain Knowledge Musona confirmed there were no murmurs of discontent from the players this time around, describing their camp at Yadah Village as perfect. It s a very quiet place where we had our privacy with a few people coming in and out and for the first time, our sessions were very private. I think it s a very good place to camp with its world-class standards. I would say it was a perfect place for the team. Magaya has previously donated cash to the Warriors and their counterparts, the Mighty Warriors. Our wish is for the team to qualify for the Afcon tournament, and with sponsorship like this, the sky is the limit. But the ultimate goal that the Prophet and I m sure every Zimbabwean wants, is for the team to qualify for the World Cup, Mango said. There were reports yesterday that Magaya had a clash with Warriors coach Norman Mapeza after the match, but both parties dismissed the rumours.The sponsorship came as a major lift for Zifa who are struggling for funds. Before the 2017 Afcon finals, Zifa wanted to use its lodgings in Mount Hampden for the Warriors accommodation, but the players declined to stay there.