To pursue or not pursue electoral reforms: This debate continues to rage unabated ahead of the crunch 2018 election. A fierce school of thought urging the opposition to desist from the futile pursuit of electoral reforms seems to be gaining traction. While at one time, the civic society, opposition and various coalitions sang from the same hymn book of electoral reforms, some now argue otherwise. Could they be right? What have they noticed? Focus, they argue, should be on voter registration instead of something that would never materialise under Zanu PF. The rationale of this philosophy is that no playing field would ever be even under the incumbent administration. guest column: Learnmore ZuzeHistory, too, is on their side. While some argue from this well-considered standpoint, I conceive that a total neglect of electoral reforms can only be suicidal at any rate, especially with the time left to next year s elections. The two, voter mobilisation and the call for electoral reforms, are, from where I stand, mutually inclusive; one strengthens the other. The pursuit of both becomes critical even in the face of an indifferent and defiant ruling party.Granted, the playing field under Zanu PF has never been and will never be level, the machinery will maim, abduct and kill for power. The footprints of this are in the political archives. Anyone who needs evidence of this can revisit the 1980 elections right up to where we are today and the common denominator will stare right at your face, namely, systematic violence against dissenting views, opposition supporters in particular. One can revisit the 1980 election and Joshua Nkomo, the then figurehead of opposition, would tell you the abuse he suffered resulting from a playing field that was never smooth. One can also revisit the subsequent elections of the early 90s and stalwarts like Reverend Ndabaningi Sithole would certainly confirm how everything was skewed in favour of the ruling party.In fact, where I grew up, voting for the ruling party was duty. I had to learn with bewilderment, like many other Zimbabweans, very late in life, that one could select a political candidate of their choice. Houses were permed (burnt down) if one was suspected of belonging to a different political persuasion. Margaret Dongo, a consistent and fierce critic of Mugabe s administration, would have a say in that. The late former Gweru mayor, Patrick Kombayi, again, would have confirmed the truth of it. Morgan Tsvangirai, in 2000, 2008 and even 2013, respectively, despite massive popularity, will vouch for the truth that no field was ever even under Zanu PF rule. From directly being barred to enter particular constituencies to physical attacks on his person, there is simply nothing level about past elections and it would be foolhardy to think that things will change simply because of the year 2018.Thousands of opposition supporters have been displaced and subjected to callous treatment since the turn of the century. Legal cases have been handled where the victims became the prisoners during this feared time of elections. It is, therefore, true, that not just Zanu PF, but no party would ever reform itself out of power, as they say. Just to pick a single instance, it is a dream extremely unlikely for the outside vote to be allowed in Zimbabwe. With millions of people having fled from home to live as paupers in hostile lands, Zanu PF would never be so dumb as to allow the Diaspora vote. Nothing can be further from the truth, such reforms amount to dreams.So, does this mean that the call for electoral reforms is off balance and unnecessary in the struggle for a democratic Zimbabwe? Honestly, that the fight for electoral reforms seems to be an exercise in futility, given the nature of Zanu PF, should never be a reason to discard this fight. This would be tantamount to endorsing an unfair playing field well ahead of time. To begin with, the opposition must be thorough and cannot afford complacency on anything regarding voting next year. I would, therefore, agree that it is actually a bit worrisome to have main opposition leader Tsvangirai endorsing the Chinese firm that won the tender to provide the elections kit for next year. Tsvangirai might have spoken too soon. Everything should be subjected to the closest scrutiny and treated with utmost suspicion. Tsvangirai would have done well to remain silent on the matter and see how the political drama unfolds, as the world can only laugh with glee should he be found turning against his statements in such a bumpy electoral environment. The same applies to the call for electoral reforms; it would be comical, if not hysterical, to assume that they are not important. Voters can be mobilised to register to vote, but the mobilisation can only happen if the opposition has access to the voter. Voter mobilisation would make all sense given that the voters roll is open to inspection by anyone. In the same vein, it would be pointless to rally voters who will be displaced from their constituencies as a result of endorsed violence. Neglecting electoral reforms, if critics of reforms can t see it, is exactly what will have this country remaining in the economic rut she finds herself in. Zanu PF, in the absence of these fervent calls for reforms, would commit electoral crimes with impunity. Why do critics of reforms want to expose Zimbabweans to a live wire? Insisting on electoral reforms, no matter how little the impact is, remains very necessary and critical for Zimbabwe. Zimbabweans should continue to call and to make noise about Mugabe s failure to ratify the African Charter on national elections. This charter has never been endorsed even at a time when Mugabe became the chairperson of the African Union. In this charter are all the electoral reforms that the opposition is crying about. Pressure must be mounted; that little in reforms would prove decisive in the 2018 election. Its suicide to abandon electoral reforms; it s the next thing to handing Zanu PF another five-year term of misery for Zimbabweans.Learnmore Zuze is a law officer and writes in his own capacity. E-mail: lastawa77@gmail.com