MKHULULI NDLOVU has developed a coaching tool called the VIP mandate. This is to guide for effectiveness to companies, youth and schools to a life rich in Vision, Integrity and Purpose (VIP). He is one of the leading authorities in understanding and stimulating human potential. Last year he was nominated as one of the best youth life coaches of the ear and was also nominated as best practice by National Aids Council. He features on different media across Zimbabwe. I (JN) interviewed him (MN) and I loved his hunger for greatness. SUCCESS LIFE: JONAH NYONIJN: We are living in hard times and in an unpredictable era, how does an individual reach for their greatness?MK: Lose everything not your heartbeat. All matters of the heart require a sound mind and being spiritually alert. Some systems take pride in making sure the heartbeat of a lovely marriage stops or even a great business. Some go out of their way and make it their personal business to stop you from achieving your dreams and heart s desires. Lose your job, relationship, promotion or even attention from someone you love and admire, but do not lose your heart beat. Let the universe know you are still standing. If the blood is moving there is still life. Work your dream the living day light. Seek opportunities to grow and leap higher. It might be hard, tough and difficult but you know that you can win as long as you remain relentless, resolute and resourceful. Great VIPs know great pain yet they do not lose the heartbeat. Do not slam the door of learning, surviving and delaying gratification on your own face. Listen to the heart of your endeavours and plunge ahead. A heart beat there is a sign of life. Put yourself together and have an achievement driven mindset. Know and believe that you are not mentally and emotionally fit to live your fears instead of your dreams.JN: In a time of loss how does one fight while nursing their pain?MN: Every now and then I pick a fight with myself. I say this even to the crowds I have a privileged to address in Africa pick a fight with yourself . When the business is slow and the world seems to be against you at that moment you have to fight your negative beliefs and limiting attitudes. Pick a fight with bad attitudes that have robbed you of meaningful relationships. Pick a fight with habits that perpetually create emotional damage and sabotage your spirit. Stand strong and fight the inner voice that brings back and magnifies your past failures and defeats. Be ready to bleed now so that you can breathe tomorrow. The future is unlimited for you. Fight! You are a VIP. Sometimes the best fight is the fight to keep your mouth shut. Say no word to naysayers and relatives who suck the life out of you. If you want to fight and kill critics be silent. Silence does not mean you are stupid or powerless No! It is simply mean that you care too much about yourself to engage in meaningless conversations that drain you. You have something special. You are a VIP .Life is battle field of fighting for your dreams, beliefs and values. Fight and hold your position. JN: What are the reasons of wanting more in life? Should we want more than we have now?MN: I feel like the reason you are not settling for less than you deserve it is because the future is screaming at you with loud passionate voice of great anticipation saying Come get me! Come get me! I am over here! .The dreams and all your future hopes are only few or more steps away from failure, criticism, raw deals, and disappointments from someone you might even respect and love. Do not let it get you down. Success is not in short supply. Bounce back from the heavy and painful blows of life and still maintain your VIP status. It is hard sometimes when no one believes in you still take your stand and be independently radical about your dreams. I believe that somehow in your heart of hearts there is that voice pleading with you not to give up or give in. The creation is waiting for your manifestation with large desperation. You feel it even as you read that life is waiting on your leadership, on your book, talents, decisions and meaningful contributions. JN: What could be the leading cause of giving up in business and opting for other things that their true purpose?MN: It is easy to commit suicide. When you are not living according to your purpose you are committing spiritual suicide. Being involved in a job that does not meet your needs, having a relationship that suck the energy of living out of you. I tell you it is easy to stay on the road of defeat and still pretend like you are on the road of Purpose. Do not let that be your life story. The question is how you have sold your soul to the predicaments of this world. How do you want to be remembered? Have you made up your mind to be a true reflection of your bank account? Motivate yourself and speak life in the moments when life seems difficult to live. Search your spirit and get more energy from walking in the true light of your potential and purpose. Don t sentence yourself to life in prison of unfulfilled desires, bitterness and painful experiences because of your inaction. Spiritual suicide is deadly to your dreams and makes you live life from victim position, begging position. Thus not your life s story. Break Out VIPJN: To win in life do we have to compete or have a lot people to believe in us?MN: Refuse to live from hand to mouth. Choose to be uncommon if you have to. Set the trend and come back again and break your own record. As long as you are alive let the world experience your leadership and feel the warmth of your existence. Choose not to be a common person. Let your talents and ideas feed you and let them be the source of your income. Stretch your inner being and be relentless. Through the inspiration of desperation we become creative. This we do so as to change circumstances that are hurting us. Remember all you can do is all you can do. All you can do is enough. Whatever you do make sure you do all you can do! You are a VIP. You are a VIP Sometimes life will move too fast on you. All hell will break loose on you and you will be alone. You will be left alone, dreaming alone and desperate in your own solitude. Thus when you need to believe alone and trust on the power that is more powerful than you. Loss of a loved one can creep in, loss of a job or a valued relationship and betrayed trust. Thus when you have to stand out and believe. Believe that you can bounce back and be a VIP, Believe you can be the answer to this troubled world. VIP decide to give all of you. Give all of you in your dreams. Give all of you in the work and projects you are involved in. Give all of the love in your relationship, family and friends. Look within and give your best for the best. You are a VIP! Success needs one person to believe. You are a VIP JN: Does spirituality and business connect?MN: Have confidence in your source. Most successful people I know have a very special spiritual component. It may not be Christianity, but they have confidence in a higher force in life. To those who believe in God I say take care of your spiritual business. Trust God as your Source and He will entrust you with his Resources. Appreciate the discipline of work, maintaining a good attitude. Keep the drive alive and God will do his part. Separate your time and seek devotion and meditate. There is divine power seeking to guide you in your decision making and leading you to places of creativity. Only God knows what man will discover in years, months or days to come. You surely need someone like that on your team. Consulting a higher power greater than you is a sign of humility and accepting tat as a human being you can only do so much. No matter how learned you are or achievements you have had there is always something that you don t know. Appreciate the creator. You are a VIP JN: What role does belief play in effective living?MN: Faith is the oil that takes friction out of living. Let me tell you when it is easy to have faith; when your relatives are in South Africa sending you money or your family seems happy. It is easy to say the Lord is good when you get a promotion. But when you hear that they are being attacked, burned, beaten to death! Thus when it is tough to have faith then or when you lose your job, get a divorce, get expelled and life seems to be against your existence in this life. Call all your faith and Believe that this will pass. VIPs stay in faith. Always remind yourself that the predicaments will pass in as much good times come and go. Nothing lasts forever except God. Stand in Prayer. You are a VIP JN: What should effective people hunt for?MN: Start the search you will find good relationships, good feelings, a peace of mind, wisdom and power. All these and more are available to those who are not going to give up. Take personal responsibility of your life! Do not have days like most people have. Take control of your own life!! Search for opportunities to better your life and your dreams. The world is not looking for good people only but people with ideas that birth positive change and add more value. Be actively looking and reading some books developing your mind to the level of life you want to live. You have something special. Search inside yourself and discover your true worth. The greatest discovery is self-discovery. JN: Most people ask the question why me? What do you say about that?MN: Rise above failure and disappointments in life. Project yourself doing bigger things. Shift your focus from why me to Why not me . Why not you living your life in Gods purpose? Why not you mending that relationship, being hopeful and living from The VIP position? Why not you taking the first step to apologise? Why not you showing kindness to people who do not deserve It? Who would you suggest to have bad luck or bad breaks? All of us have our fair share of disappointments. Life happens on us all, trouble and misfortunes befall everybody those things do not discriminate. Only the VIPs stand up to the challenge of fighting and sometimes they lose but it does not define who they are. Stick to their true identity and live an inspired life. Why not elect to live an adventurous life. You are created for adventure. That statement is true for you. You are a VIP. JN: What is true personal leadership ?MN: Leadership is living life on your own terms. I am asking everyone to take charge of their own life. The window closes so quickly on opportunities, act now. It is your life don t go around telling people how life has done you wrong and how you have decided to live your fears. We don t want to hear that in fact we run from people like that. Lead your own life and feel no regret. You are a VIP. As you lead your own life surround yourself with powerful people. Powerful people are the people who are loyal to you and are interested in helping you become more than what you are. They will fight for you in your absence, seek promotion for you and always protect your image. When things go wrong and they will, these people are the people who can walk and hold your hand leading you to the promised land. Lead your life I say to fertile grounds. Thus the innate ability that set VIPs apart. JN: Is success for everyone then?MN: Shame, lack, disappointments and stress are not special gifts reserved for the poor. Who are you hanging around with now that is inspiring true performance. Next to Vision is Integrity then Purpose . What kind of people do you love sitting next to? If it is your broke, busted and disgusting neighbours then think once not twice and move away. The other side of human nature is dangerous, evil and lazy. Sleeping is for people who work. Being lethargic and a very serious motivated pessimist will not better your lifestyle, spirituality and level of energy by a dime.Get up and make it happen, your parents and people around you might be so ancient in their thinking and if you are waiting for their approval it might cost you your life. Success is not in supply. Follow the discipline of smart thinking and apply the discipline of hard work. Let the universe push and support your worthy cause. The people you spend your time and share ideas affect your mental resilience. Believe me they are making a statement of your life! You are a VIP. Jonah Nyoni is an author, success coach and certified leadership/business trainer. He is the author of Inspiration for Success and Success Within Reach. Contact details: Tel: 0772 581 918. Email: jonah@classicmail.co.za. Twitter@jonahnyoni.