ZIMBABWE is set to host its inaugural National Ethics Convention, dubbed NEC2017, next month to proffer practical ways of embedding best practice ethics in business operations. BY BUSINESS REPORTERThe convention will take place on July 28, 2017 in Harare.NEC2017 will be hosted by the Business Ethics Centre (BEC) in partnership with its global and local partners. The BEC is an organisation that offers research, training and advisory services in corporate ethics, corporate governance, and human capital development. In a statement yesterday, BEC managing director, Bradwell Mhonderwa, said the convention will underpin the critical role of the best ethical practices enhancing corporate governance. In Zimbabwe, today, there is a yawning need for companies to shift their focus and begin to adopt effective ethics interventions. Especially as recommended by global best practice governance benchmarks like King IV, including our own Zimbabwe National Code on Corporate Governance (ZimCode). King IV Code on Corporate Governance, which was launched in South Africa in November 2016 succinctly lays out ethical leadership, effectively managed ethics, and responsible corporate citizenship, he said.Mhonderwa said the King IV Code lays out ethical leadership, effectively managed ethics, and responsible corporate citizenship as one of the key principles that anchor effective corporate governance practices in any organisation. . . . be it in the private sector, public sector, or NGOs, and ZimCode recommends that businesses must adopt effectively managed ethics that is measurable, monitored, reported on and disclosed as part of a business s yearly disclosure and reporting obligations, he said.The convention will have speakers such as investment banker and current National Social Security Authority board chairperson, Robin Vela, Memory Nguwi, a human rights practitioner and occupational psychologist and Terrence Chimangya, a corporate governance and risk management specialist.Others include Mufaro Gunduza, a business intelligence expert and academic and Bradwell Mhonderwa, an ethics consultant and trainer.