Shabanie Mine technical manager, Taku Shariwa has lavished praise on his side, which he feels has the capacity to beat their more-fancied neighbours FC Platinum when the two teams meet in the first Castle Lager Premier Soccer League instalment of the eagerly anticipated Zvishavane derby on Sunday at Maglas. BY MUKUDZEI CHINGWEREIt appears the returnees are developing a penchant to punch above their weight, having avoided defeat against the country s three traditional giants Dynamos, Highlanders and Caps United so far.Both sides, however, come into the match on the back of some commendable results and will be hoping to maintain their fine form to claim victory, which comes with not only three points, but huge bragging rights.The platinum miners still boast of being the only team so far in the top division yet to taste defeat and their coach, Norman Mapeza, also the Warriors interim gaffer, will be hoping to maintain that record.As for the Chinda Boys, they have done well, especially in their last six league outings, where they have lost only once, a narrow 1-0 away defeat to log leaders, Ngezi Platinum.Shariwa has backed his side to do well and challenged his stars to impress so as to try and convince Mapeza to include them in the Warriors squad, who are preparing to face Liberia in an Africa Cup of Nations qualifier on June 11. We have been doing very well this season considering our budget and that we are also a small team compared to most of the teams in the league. Our players like Samuel Mafukidze and Collin Dhuwa, who have been voted man of the match twice this season, and the rest of the squad are playing extremely well and I think they deserve more recognition, he said. We have the best talented squad in the league. This is a good opportunity for the players to shine in front of the Warriors (interim) coach so that they might be considered for future national team assignments like the Cosafa tournament. We also have a clean bill of health and I am confident we have the capacity to win the game come Sunday. I also want to encourage our supporters to desist from violence of any kind. Let us all enjoy the game and desist from hate speech and fights. Football should unite us, and not the other way round. Castle Lager Premier Soccer League matchday 12Saturday: Yadah v Hwange (National Sports Stadium, 1pm), Harare City v Chicken Inn (National Sports Stadium), Bulawayo City v How Mine (Barbourfields), ZPC Kariba v Bantu Rovers (Nyamhunga), Tsholotsho v Dynamos (Dulivhadzimo)Sunday: Highlanders v Triangle (Barbourfields), Ngezi Platinum v Chapungu (Baobab), Shabanie Mine v FC Platinum (Maglas), Caps United v Black Rhinos (postponed)</strong>