PARTY animals that partook of the Lost bush party held at Red Bank Farm have lashed out at organisers, accusing them of giving them a raw deal not worth $100 they had paid to be part of the bush jamboree. BY SINDISO DUBEInitially those who had subscribed to the party had no idea about the venue as it was meant to be a secret. The party which was organised by Heritage Steam Safaris, was held at a farm located 50km from Bulawayo last Saturday from 10pm to Sunday morning, with attendants returning to Bulawayo around 11 am. VIP gold access pass tickets which included access to the VIP lounge on the train and main event, which included dinner, accommodation and a lost survival kit which has a braai pack, six-pack of beer and optional cigarettes were sold for $100, while the general access silver pass went for $25.Some people who paid for the VIP tickets, however, claimed they did not access the said benefits, but ended up crowded together with the $25 revellers.They took to social media and lashed out at the organisers describing the hospitality as extremely poor and the organisers as crooks. One of the wheel spinners slated to perform at the jamboree said he left the venue in disappointment. I was cold and still waiting for my turn to perform. There was no coach where I could keep my equipment safe and I could not carry my music controller around the train so I decided to return to Bulawayo. What they did was not professional, they took us for granted, he said. One of the organisers, Basil Mapfumo, however, said the confusion was caused by last minute changes made prior to the party. We had no option, but to do with one train after the service providers trebled their booking fee on the last hour. Some of our sponsors and partners pulled out late and this meant that we had to do with fewer sleeping coaches. We also had to do away with the stage and performing artistes, he said.We apologise to everyone who did not get the treatment they deserved. We are working towards compensating everyone who paid for VIP access. 