ZIMBABWE Tourism Authority chief executive officer Karikoga Kaseke s pledge for Sikhulile Shumba who was recently crowned Miss Mt Pleasant to gain automatic entry into the forthcoming edition of Miss Tourism Zimbabwe (MTZ) set for December could have come a little too early. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOMiss Mt Pleasant Sikhulile ShumbaKaseke made the offer before touching base with MTZ patron, Barbara Mzembi, as the pageant has got a water-tight selection criterion that all prospective beauty queens must satisfy before they can participate.Kaseke made the pledge at the Miss Mt Pleasant beauty contest held at 7Arts in Harare, during which he also pledged a three-night trip to Victoria Falls for the winners.The ZTA boss, however, admitted later during a Press conference that he may have jumped the gun. I have not got the chance to talk to the patron [Mzembi] about it. I will have the chance to talk to the patron about it and I will answer your question later, he said.Meanwhile, MTZ organisers have set December 9 as the date of the grand finale of the pageant with their anchor sponsor, Justice Maphosa, promising to bankroll the pageant.Mzembi said 15 models are expected to battle it out for the crown, currently held by Ashley Morgan. Miss Tourism Zimbabwe 17 applications will be open from July 1 so we urge all the ladies to apply. We are going to conduct our scouting throughout the provinces in the month of September, she said. All the girls who have the attitude we are looking at for they are well come to participate, but they have to apply. The applications are on our website, Facebook page and the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority city offices in every province. Mzembi said after September, they will conduct the auditions and then choose 15 girls across the country and they will go into the boot camp a few days before the grand finale.Maphosa said he was prepared to host another successful pageant this year. We are back again to do what is important to prepare and hold once more another successful pageant in Miss Tourism Zimbabwe 2017 which is very important for us all as we raise awareness to the girl child, to assist and empower, Maphosa said.