BLACK RHINOS&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;.1 HARARE CITY&#8230;&#8230;. (1) 2HARARE City wingback Takudzwa Chimwemwe thundered a sensational 30-yard shot into the top right corner, certainly a contender for the goal of the season, as the Sunshine City Boys inflicted a first home defeat to high-flying Black Rhinos at Morris Depot yesterday. BY HENRY MHARAChimwemwe unleashed the rocket on the 35th minute to cancel out a Cliff Chitsamba s deflected goal on the 31st minute before Martin Vengesai fired through the legs of Rhinos goalkeeper Herbet Rusawo for the winner four minutes after the break.It was the first time that Rhinos had conceded at home this season in eight matches. The win, which was City s second in a row and their fourth this season, lifted them to 11th on the log with 17 points, as they continued with their upsurge on the table.For Rhinos, yesterday s defeat was their first at home and second this season, where they have defied odds. The result saw the army side losing the top spot on the log table, and are now third with 27 points, two behind joint leaders Chicken Inn and Ngezi Platinum.City coach Philani Beefy Ncube, who is leading the revolution since taking over a month ago, was excited by the result. We were here for a mission of which we managed to accomplish. We have once again broken a record. There was no way a team was not going to concede at home for the whole season. The two that we gave them is a reminder that they have to go back and do their homework well, Beefy, who said is already looking at the next fixture, said.His counterpart Stanford Stix Mtizwa blamed the defeat on the absence of his two defenders Bruce Homora and Jameson Mukombwe, who are on national duty. The two players absence was our biggest downfall. Our defence didn t work like the way it does when those two are present. That s were we lost it, Mtizwa said.There was little to chose between the two in the opening minutes, but it was the visitors who got the first clear sight of goal when William Manondo spread the ball wide to find Kuda Kumwala, who cleverly squared the ball to Jerry Chipangura who somehow squirmed and failed to turn the ball home from a metre out.They were immediately punished for the glaring miss when a shot by Chitsamba from deep was deflected past goalkeeper Max Nyamupanedengu.City responded in style when their skipper Tendai Samanja found Chimwemwe in a position that appeared to pose no danger. And with a few expecting the right back to find a pass, he fired an unstoppable drive with power and precision to find the top right corner.A spell of Rhinos possession at the start of the second half saw Benjamin Marere heading wide from a good range.He would be made to rue that missed chance two minutes later when Vengesai beat Sydney Linyama to run clear before showing great composure to drill the ball through the goalkeeper s legs.The two teams had good chances later in the game, but 2-1 is how things ended with Black Rhinos travelling to ZPC Kariba for their next fixture while City host Hwange.Teams Black Rhinos: H Rusawo, G Mugabe, F Banda, S Jimu, S Linyama (B Chandisaita, 52 ), T Chigudu, D Mudadi, C Chitsamba, M Kureva, B Marere (L Saramaya, 57 ), L ChiwungaHarare City: M Nyamupanedengu, J Chipangura (G Kufandada, 80 ), H Chapusha, M Vengesai (L Muyambo, 93&#8242;), R Uchena, P Mpelele, E Madhananga, W Manondo, T Samanja, K Kumwala (J Jam, 60 ), T Chimwemwe</strong>