LAS VEGAS Boxing hall of famer Lennox Lewis won t be spending his money on the Floyd Mayweather-Conor McGregor fight, saying he can t take it serious because the outcome is too predictable.The former undisputed world heavyweight champion said the combination of Mayweather s boxing experience and hand speed will be too much to handle for McGregor, who has made his name as a mixed martial arts fighter.Floyd Mayweather It s ridiculous to me, Lewis told US sports broadcaster ESPN. You are talking about one discipline where you can use only your hands and only a few can do it. Every battle sport always starts with your hands, but they are two totally different sports. The fight is being held in the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas and promoters are hoping to make millions off the pay-per-view sales. Scheduled as a 12-round boxing match with 10-ounce gloves, three-time world heavyweight champion Lewis says it won t go the distance. I can t take it serious, Lewis said. Mayweather is the best in his weight class, no one can touch him in boxing. Floyd will stop him. He s just too good at boxing for McGregor and McGregor is just too inexperienced. I wouldn t buy it but I would be interested in the result. To me, I know who is going to win already so there s no use in watching it. Lewis, who fought for Canada at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, joins a growing list of boxing purists who have come out against the much-discussed fight which will take place on August 26.The 40-year-old Mayweather has been retired since beating Andre Berto in September 2015 and improving his career record to 49-0.The matchup with McGregor gives Mayweather a chance to reach the 50-0 career milestone.Former champ Oscar De La Hoya and promoter Kathy Duva have also slammed the event as an exhibition spectacle, pointing to the fact that the 28-year-old McGregor has never had a professional boxing match and only dabbled in the sport as a teenager.But unlike those two, Lewis doesn t feel the novelty matchup will hurt boxing s image. I don t believe it would damage boxing . . . I love Bruce Lee and the other disciplines and when he fought against other fighters, you wanted to see the differences, so I can see the appeal, Lewis said.Mayweather-McGregor have yet to get together face-to-face since the announcement but they are expected to announce a promotional tour that will take them to a couple of major US cities. SuperSport