ST GEORGES College triple jumper and footballer, Chengetai Mapaya, has been granted a scholarship to study at Texas Christian University in the United States, courtesy of Payne Global Sports Management International. BY FORTUNE MBELEChengetayi MapayaMapaya (18) won gold for Zimbabwe in the African Union Sports Council Region 5 Under-20 Youth Games in Angola last year for his 15.42 metres leap in triple jump and a silver in the long jump where he managed 6.83 metres.Payne Global Sports Management agent, Lovemore Dube yesterday confirmed Mapaya s scholarship to Texas University, beginning August. Mapaya has been awarded a scholarship at Texas Christian University where he will study a programme of his own choice. This is as a result of the athletics workshop conducted last year by Darryl Anderson and Arnold Payne in conjunction with the National University of Science and Technology and the Bulawayo Athletics Board at White City.It has been facilitated by the Payne Global Sports Management founded by Payne, Dube said.Anderson is a track and field coach at the Texas Christian University while Payne is former Zimbabwe s 400m record holder, based in the United States. We are happy to see Mapaya, a St Georges prot g move to the US this August and we are confident he will better his performance once exposed to better facilities and competition. We hope to manage him towards turning professional when he completes his studies. We have no doubt he will represent his country at the highest level. His achievement and attainment of a scholarship will open floodgates for more opportunities for fellow countrymen in athletics and football. A high level of commitment and hard work will make him an international star and success. Once again we are grateful to all those that collaborated with us in turning a dream to reality for a Zimbabwean son, Dube said.Mapaya is the Annual National Sports Awards (Ansa) Junior Sportsman of the Year silver medallist, beaten to the gold award by boxer and karateka Beaven Sibanda, while discus thrower Wayne Nkomo walked away with bronze in the awards ceremony held in January.