Yadah FC &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;(1)2 Caps UNITED&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;..0CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe has hinted he might be forced to reconsider his future after the Zimbabwean football champions suffered a shock defeat at the hands of Yadah FC in a Castle Lager Premiership match at Morris Depot in Harare yesterday. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Yadah FC captain Jimmy Dzingai (second from left) leads his team s celebrations after opening the scoring against Caps United at Morris Depot in Harare yesterdayIt was the Green Machine s second defeat of the season and it came a week after a their 4-2 loss to Al Ahly Tripoli in the African Champions League which left them on the brink. Goals in each half by Jimmy Dzingai, who found the target in the 47th minute, and Munyaradzi Chiwara, who doubled the lead in the 63rd minute, were all Yadah needed to sew up the contest.The champions tried in vain to claw back into the game with Ronald Pfumbidzai coming close with a stunning free kick that crashed against the upright post in the 74th minute.Earlier on, Caps United had missed an opportunity with Tafadzwa Fire Rusike coming close with a hopeful long-range shot that could have turned the game on its head.But the Premiership new boys held on to their lead and had a goal disallowed at the death. The Green Machine appeared to lack the fighting spirit synonymous with them.Chitembwe, however, defended the commitment of his lads, saying they gave their all. He, instead, took responsibility for the team s performance.He said the recent disappointing spate of results might force him to do a self-introspection and review his position. Naturally, it s disappointing to lose. I know the expectations of the team, the expectations of the players, I think they gave their all, but unfortunately, it was never meant to be. But at the end of the day, it s all about the coach. When you are a coach, you need to look at yourself and critically review your position. You feel the club deserves more and better. When you look at yourself and you see your effort is not matching the expectations, you feel it is important if there could be someone who could take the team further, he said.Caps United, who host Egyptian giants Zamalek in the African Champions League on Sunday, remain 14th and 15 points behind log leaders Ngezi Platinum.Teams Yadah FC: T Dube, M Nyenye, B Chikwinya, J Dzingai, R Dongo, B Mapfumo, W Kamudyariwo, P Borges, M Demera, (E Karembo 90&#8242;),M Chiwara, D Savanhu, (M Makopa 79&#8242;), Caps United: P Chigumba, V Musarurwa, R Pfumbidzai, C Munzambwa, D Dauda, D Chafa, J Ngodzo, (M Muchenje 46&#8242;), P Bhamusi, (A Kambanje 60&#8242;), R Chitiyo, A Amidu, T Rusike</strong>