FORMER Warriors midfielder Edzai Kasinauyo is no more. BY SPORTS REPORTERThe late Edzai KasinauyoHe was 42. His sister, Fadzai, confirmed the death yesterday, but could not divulge any further information. She said the family would release a statement in due course.However, reports suggested that he passed on yesterday morning in South Africa.Kasinauyo is survived by two children, Jayden and Tatenda.Kasinauyo was part of Zimbabwe s 2006 Nations Cup squad and recently had his name cleared after initially being expelled from the Zifa committee for alleged involvement in a match-fixing scandal that rocked the country last year.The former Caps United midfielder spent almost a decade in South Africa, turning out for Premiership clubs Cape Town Spurs, Ajax Cape Town, Hellenics, FC AK and Moroka Swallows.After hanging his boots, Kasinauyo ventured into sports and player management and engineered deals for players such as Warriors stars Willard Katsande, Khama Billiat, Knowledge Musona and Evans Rusike to move to South Africa.He was also Adidas agent in Zimbabwe and facilitated the sportswear company s deals with Dynamos and Highlanders.Kasinauyo was elected to the Zifa board in December 2015, where he was given the association s development portfolio.He was, however, expelled by the country s football body the following year on allegations of plotting to fix an Africa Cup of Nations qualifier between Zimbabwe and Swaziland although the charges were later dropped.Condolence messages from football stakeholders started pouring in as soon as the tragic news broke out on social media yesterday. We re saddened by the untimely death of Edzai Kasinauyo. Our thoughts are with his family and friends. Our sincere condolences to his family, Zifa wrote in a statement.The Premier Soccer League said: It is with great sadness that we have learnt of the untimely death of football legend Edzai Kasinauyo. On behalf of the Premier Soccer League board of governors, clubs and staff, we would like to convey our heartfelt condolences to the Kasinauyo family, friends and the entire football fraternity. Edzai Kasinauyo was a dedicated man and hard worker who had an incredible career as a footballer, a football administrator as well as a businessman. He will be remembered as a legend who transformed the game of football in so many ways. His service to football will forever be cherished. Sports Journalists Association-Northern Region chairman Ian Zvoma said his organisation was saddened by the sudden death of Kasinauyo, with whom they had a good working relationship as a player, football agent and administrator. The Sports Journalists Association-Northern Region has learnt with a sense of deep sorrow of the passing-on of former Warriors midfielder Edzai Kasinauyo. Kasinauyo s death is a blow to the football fraternity, as his contribution will be greatly missed. His death leaves a void which will be difficult to fill, particularly when the sports fraternity was still expecting to tap from his vast experience. Our deepest condolences to the Kasinauyo family. 