Laura Gwatiringa is the group marketing and corporate affairs executive at CBZ Holdings. She is a board member of Campus Community Foundation and is passionate about youth development and mentorship. She is also a board member for Air Zimbabwe.Tayson Mudarikiri has worked in the field of youth development in Zimbabwe for over 10 years. Currently, he works for Terre des Hommes Schweiz as national Consultant for Zimbabwe and South Africa where he provides on-going support to community based civil society organizations in the areas of programming for youth and organizational development.He has previous experience in promoting youth participation in public policy and development discourse. Tayson holds a master s degree in Public Sector Management from Africa University in Zimbabwe.Upon return from the Washington Fellowship, he intends to facilitate a multi-stakeholder process to initiate policy reforms in the country on issues pertaining to entrepreneurship. He also seeks to mobilize youth at a grassroots level to inform public policy and eventually, Tayson hopes to establish the first ever national institute that provides academic training on youth development and produces enough human capital to tackle development challenges in a country where youth constitute over half of the total population.Emilliah Mabika is the Head of Group Marketing and Corporate Communications for ZB Financial Holdings. She has experience in brand management across different sectors including Grain Marketing Board, Africa Online and Cairns Foods. Emilliah has championed the development and launch of projects key projects including Diaspora Banking and Agency Banking.Emilliah is also passionate about sustainable corporate social investment and through ZB Financial Holdings she is involved in donations and sponsorships to the educational sector, the Trees for Life Campaign towards reforestation and other projects related to health and arts and culture development. She holds an MBA from the University of Zimbabwe.Emilliah is married, a mother of three with a passion for social entrepreneurship, event management and MCing.Albert Nyathi is an award-winning poet and musician and performs with Imbongi, an outfit that was chosen by the United Nations to represent African Music at the youth congress in Hawaii in 1999. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Zimbabwe and is well known for the poem and song Senzeni Na? which he composed following the assassination of South African political activist, Chris Hani.Nigel Mugamu is the founder of 263Chat media platform which focuses on creating, encouraging and convening dialogue on Zimbabwe. The award-winning initiative was presented with a Highway Africa Award in September 2013 &#8211; New Media Awards 2013 Innovative Use of Technology for Community Engagement. 263Chat is now a fully-fledge business offering social media consultancy.Mugamu holds several leadership positions including being the Co-Founder and Board Member of Hypercube Technology Hub. He is also a Board Member of Prosper Africa Film Fund Zimbabwe. Nigel holds a Bachelor of Financial Administration (Accounting) and an MBA.Kwame Tapiwa Muzawazi is a Zimbabwean born academic, explorer and diplomat who broke the Guinness Book of World Records for the longest lecture delivered. He is also an explorer, having explored Africa by road simultaneously engaging with the continent academically after which he launched the Book of African Records, an Africanised version of the Guinness Book of World Records.The project was also meant to document and publicise information about Africa in general. He was also honored by the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority for being a good ambassador. He was appointed tourism ambassador for Eastern Europe.