I AM one who likes to know what is happening around the world on a daily basis. I never stop searching for reasons for the chaos that seems to engulf communities these days. Relationships: Kilton MoyoThere are so many of these reasons, but to me one of the root reasons for what we see now is confused leadership. The reason why leadership is so confused is that the family is not modelling the right leadership. In fact, the family, as the first community in a community, is suffering from the worst leadership ever. The family is a community upon which all other communities are born and built. When God wanted to create humanity, all of humanity, He created a family of a man and a woman. This became the first ever community of humans and from this community nations were to come. In the beginning this community (family) enjoyed awesome leadership until the enemy came and distorted it. From there on, the family has suffered the worst of leadership spilling over to nations the world over. Everything concerning humanity was corrupted at the family level and it is my belief that if we are to fix these, we must get to where things were first messed up. Unless we fix the family, we might not be able to fix our communities. Unless we fix leadership in the family we might not fix leadership in communities and nations. Unless the family is well-led, the world will suffer poor leadership as a result. What happens in the family is what the world acts and reproduces. Family is the foundation and godly leadership values must be learnt and embraced here. Have you not seen how corrupt and violent and selfish leadership has become in the family? I see around us men and women trying all the best they can to lead other institutions but the family. I see people going to universities and acquiring degrees on leadership of various institutions but not the family. I see many writing on leadership in politics, business and all that, and this is good, but none on family leadership. I have seen so many qualified and well-meaning people, claiming to be leading very well elsewhere but struggling to lead the family. As such, God s most profound institution with a heavenly assignment, continues to suffer lack of sound and godly leadership. My shock is in the fact that even the presumably most successful church leaders, most of them come short when it comes to family leadership. Maybe we need to put more emphasis on the family as we do other institutes and communities. Beloved, the family is foundational and the best training ground for humanity at all levels. The devil wants to completely destroy and discredit this august institution. The world over is rubbishing the role of the family and there is a deliberate onslaught on the family. This has got to be stopped by all those who desire good success in this life and in the life to come. To me we need to bring back godly leadership and purposeful leadership in the family. We must invest in this now and once the family is led well it will produce what God designed it to produce and the earth will be filled with good people who know how to lead well. How then is leadership in the family? You can also call it Family Leadership. I will share a few principles. Leadership is a relationship The family is a place of relationships. It is in the family where people must learn how to relate across sectors. Walter C Wright would say that leadership is a relationship in which one person seeks to influence the thoughts, behaviours, beliefs, or values of another person. The best human space for foundational relationships is the family. Anyone in the world who has not learned how to relate with others at home cannot relate with the world at any level. Yet, we see so many people out there trying to lead from nowhere. Relationships are learnt and built and the home is the training ground. I thought also that the family is the best place of influencing thoughts, behaviours, beliefs and values.I can assure you that if the family set up does not influence these, then, we cannot have people grounded in any good in these areas. This is what this generation is suffering from; people with strange beliefs and values.People of weird thinking and most frustrating behaviours. The family has failed to model relationships that can influence godliness in thoughts, behaviour, beliefs and values. Family must teach its offspring on sound leadership values. These values are taught by modelling. This means that family leadership must model sound leadership values. Children are easily impacted by what they observe more than what they are told. If the family is not demonstrating the godly leadership that God expects, then the children will do likewise. Family leadership must model sound beliefs. Most families belief in strange things and pass these on to their offspring. If family leadership believes the boy child is more important than the girl child, guess what the children learn. If they believe men are superior to women, the children will believe the same. Look at what communities believe and you will know that it is from families. Children learn most of their formative behaviour from the family. In fact, everything that we learn first or enters our souls to shape our personalities comes from the family we belong to. If this is true, then the family must be in the hands of a leadership that values human life. It must be in the leadership hands that fear God who created people.You cannot influence without relationships. Most parents struggle in relating with their children. Selfishness is the most common reason for this. Some parents care more about themselves than their children. Some do not even care what kind of children they want to produce. This is visionless leadership. For any family leader to influence his or her family they must be able to build relationships upon which to build whatever they desire and is of God. Leadership is a relationship thing. The family is built on relationships. Maybe we need to be investing so much on family relationships so we can lead the family back to where it ought to be.Follow us on all our media channels and call us or write to us. You can also read our book Marriage Fitness or any of our eight books. They are available online. At Fruitful Marriages we offer you very sound, practical, relevant and restoring coaching and counselling on marriage and relationships. We are available seven days a week. Invite us or attend our meetings.Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment programme and is pastor, counsellor and author of Marriage Fitness. Call or whatsapp on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or kilton.citizenafrica@consultant.com