A SANGOFA is a Cameroonian bird believed to have eyes facing opposite directions. One faces forward and another backward. Opinion: Moses Tsimukeni MahlanguAccording to my lecturer in African Philosophy, when things fall apart, one needs to go back to Sangofa. Steve Biko echoed similar sentiments when he said, things have not gone well for Africa because, it has abandoned human basics, our ubuntu if you like.The lesson from the Sangofa bird, is that while navigating the unknown, keep an eye on history or yesterday.This lecture, has been brought to memory by Jonathan Moyo s nationalist project in Zimbabwe lecture. In case anyone is not conversant with the nationalist agenda, the author will be generous enough to share with them, the founding values of nationalism.Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, set the tone for the liberation of Africa. In his inaugural speech, as the first black President of Ghana, he asserted: Ghana is not independent until the whole of Africa, is liberated. This winds of change as expounded by this visionary, have been unparalleled. In Nkrumah s footsteps followed the likes of Julius Mwalimu Nyerere, who advocated for self reliance and a home-grown socialism. He popularised the saying mgeni siku mbili siku yatatu mpe njembe , meaning one can be a visitor for two days, on the third day, he/she joins the host family in its daily chores. In fact, in an undiluted African set up, when a wayfarer finds villagers skinning a beast, he pulls out or asks for a knife and joins the skinning party. The same applied when you found people busy in their fields, you joined them.Nationalism pivoted mainly on two aspects, namely, repossession of the land that had been primitively expropriated by the white settlers. The second one was enfranchisement, which was meant to free black people from all shackles of oppression including the right to vote. One man one vote was the nationalists battle cry. The term one man also included women, taking into account the patrimonial bias that existed then. In addition, the woman was subjected to perpetual minority, which shackle though slightly addressed, still haunts the women folk there is need to urgently address this anomaly.The late Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo had a very clear vision on both the land and enfranchisement issues. He was passionate about Lima (farm) an anagram of Mali (money) . He said if you want money, cultivate the land. This philosophy was an affront to the white settlers. Farming and land activities were meant to be the white man s preserve. Blacks would only come in as labourers. It is not surprising, therefore, to find that Nkomo was persecuted from all fronts to make sure his land vision did not see the light of the day. In one video clip, he is featured saying: White people, we are not saying surrender everything to blacks, but we are saying give them a stake in the land or economy to prevent them from being destructive. Intransigently, the whites were stiff-necked, resulting in an unplanned land grab in latter years, which could have been avoided had they co-operated then. Umzenzi kakhalelwa kukhalelwa umenziwa , meaning one who brings disaster on him/herself has only self to blame.Across the Limpopo River, Thabo Mbeki pushed for the African Renaissance, the revival of Africanism. On the other hand, Biko rallied his philosophy around African consciousness or identity. In Zambia, Kenneth Kaunda advocated for humanism, everything revolving around and for human beings.One thing is common among the nationalists of those years, namely identifying a strong brand of ideology that would rally blacks towards liberating themselves. This critical mass had to be well-organised, loyal and willing to die for the liberation cause. It had to be different from a supermarket crowd.Coming back to Moyo s nationalist project in Zimbabwe , the big question, is why now? The country has experimented with socialism, neo-liberalism (the Economic Structural Adjustment Programme era) command economics (Baccossi era) to name a few to no avail. Back to Sangofa seems the only way out of the current quagmire.Moyo raises interesting topics, or questions of which four will be interrogated. Nationally, are we still proud to be sons and daughters of the soil? This philosophy embraced every race, as long as you were formed from the dust what a tremendous, yet so down played a philosophy.Economically, the country has prostituted from socialism, capitalism, neoliberalism and command economy. On the political front, there have been attempts to turn the State into a one party State. One would still argue that Zimbabwe is de facto one party State, anyway. Ideologically, the country started on a Leninist/Marxist bias and that stance was later abandoned.Maybe, it is this fumbled state of affairs that have provoked Moyo to bemoan the lost founding values of the nationalists. The chorus to the effect this is not what we fought for is growing by day. Comrades are at each other s throats it s a dog eat dog situation. Why on earth would a Zimbabwean be disenfranchised, based on, maybe, being in the diaspora. Comrades died for one man one vote, equality before the law, non discrimination on any ground whatsoever.Moyo could be right. Let s go back to Sangofa however, some people may have gone beyond the return peg. Having one eye looking forward, while another looks backward may be advisable. Moses Tsimukeni Mahlangu writes in his personal capacity.