UNHERALDED United Arab Emirates (UAE)-based gospel artiste, Aaron Makuyana, also known as BeholdAaron, is raising Zimbabwe s flag high with his debut single, Champion, which he dropped recently following a successful international performance at a concert graced by some of Africa s top musicians. BY ALBERT MASAKAUAE-based singer Aaron Makuyana aka BeholdAaronThe Believers Loveworld minister, who is also an aircraft engineer at one of the world s leading airlines in UAE said he was buoyed by the success of his debut album and is planning to release the second single, Seated, later in the year. This is my first gospel track (Champion). The second one is ready and will be released later this year. I think Champion is doing extremely well judging by the responses I&#8217;m receiving the world over as well as the unbelievable number of downloads on all platforms that it&#8217;s uploaded, he said. Makuyana said the highlight of his career as a gospel musician was when he showcased his talent at the biannual Loveworld Festival of Music and Arts 2017 hosted by Believers Loveworld founder and senior pastor, Chris Oyakhilome, in South Africa in April, which drew more than 30 000 people. The audience was big, the stage, the lighting, the costumes, the anointing and of course the presence of the man of God was more than enough motivation to give it our best shot. It was unforgettable, he said. The beat I use for my backing vocals is a fusion of R&#038;B and an element of African emotion. I was heavily exposed to both sides of music and that created room for both. Makuyana ventured into music several years ago although his music was secular then. The artiste, who is a father of two, said he was born on the day his father died, but took up music, which was also his father s forte. I took after my dad who used to play hosho (percussion) and lead the choir. I then learnt to play the guitar soon after completing my A Levels and started composing secular songs, he said, adding that he later joined the Zaoga FIF Harare City branch choir.He later moved to the UAE in 2008 and joined Christ Embassy and immediately became part of the choir and eventually one of the lead singers.