TOURISM minister Walter Mzembi has hailed Alpha Media Holdings (AMH), publishers of NewsDay, Zimbabwe Independent and The Standard, for advancing programmes that recognise Zimbabwean heroes. BY BLESSED MHLANGA Tourism minister Walter Mzembi speaking during the 100 Great Zimbabweans Awards on TuesdaySpeaking at the inaugural 100 Great Zimbabweans Awards Gala on Tuesday night, Mzembi said the company had grown from the People Choice Awards to reach more people through the new initiative. AMH has over the past five years used the People s Choice Awards to reach out and bring to the fore sterling work by ordinary men and women who have dedicated their lives to ensuring that fellow Zimbabweans step into a future filled with hope, with their lives transformed, he said. AMH has taken a commendable step this year to grow the concept, increase reach and provide a bigger platform to celebrate ordinary heroes among us with this inaugural 100 Great Zimbabweans Awards Gala. AMH went through a meticulous process, where more than 15 000 nominations were received through print and online and a team of judges reflecting the cross section of the Zimbabwean society went through the nominations and selected winners in each of the 12 categories.The selection process was observed and audited by EY, an audit firm, to ensure transparency.Mzembi (left) poses for a photo with the 100 Great Zimbabweans winner in the health category Solomon Guramatunhu (centre) and Harare mayor Bernard ManyenyeniAmong the winners were Nyaradzo Group of Companies chief executive officer, Philip Mataranyika, while Ekenia Chifamba pipped Beatrice Mtetwa and Fadzayi Mahere to win the civil activism gong.Eye specialist, Solomon Guramatunhu came out tops in health, while wheelchair tennis Paralympian, Nyasha Mharakurwa was top in sports.The People s Choice Award went to Cosmas and Priscilla Rongoti, who founded Shanduko Yeupenyu Childcare Trust. Hailing the winners, Mzembi said: These are men and women, who don t do things to be the best or to be famous or to be a legend. Instead they sacrifice those ambitions in favour of simply doing what the people around them most need. AMH chief operating officer, Kangai Maukazuva said the media group had always worked with communities and believed that it should celebrate unsung heroes. We must recognise their contribution to society in their own unique ways, he said.&#8220;The choice for those we are celebrating today was done by fellow Zimbabweans locally and those living outside the country, who participated by nominating those that they believed deserved to be honoured today.&#8221;NewsDay Editor, Wisdom Mdzungairi said the gathering of ordinary Zimbabwean heroes should serve to motivate millions more to do good. The highlight for me has been the coming together of so many unsung Zimbabwean heroes in one room. This suggests that there are millions more out there. I can assure you that we have had numerous firsts before and this project is another milestone for NewsDay and its parent company AMH, he said.Mdzungairi thanked companies that partnered AMH to host the event, saying NewsDay would continue creating a platform for thought leadership. As always, going forward, NewsDay will provide the platform so that Zimbabweans can freely choose those they think are great citizens without undue influence, he said.