We give you the list of the winners in each category of the inaugural Alpha Media Holdings (AMH) 100 Great Zimbabweans awards held on Tuesday in Harare. AMH, publishers of NewsDay, the Zimbabwe Independent and The Standard i in partnership with the City of Harare, AB Communications ZiFM Stereo, ZB Bank, CBZ, World Vision and DHL, among others, came together to honour Zimbabweans who have made extraordinary sacrifices in their various communities.GREAT DIASPORAN Collecting on behalf of Tyrone Magwagwa. Mugwagwa&#8217;s passion is to help people start, run and grow their businesses. He is the co-founder of the entroy group which has various ventures including an equity crowdfunding company called entroy equity. GREAT ENTERTAINER Tatadzei Mr Hosho Chimanga of the Air Force of Zimbabwe learnt to play the hosho (percussion) in early childhood. While in Grade three at Nyamakosi Primary School, he had already mastered the art of playing hosho. during his nal year at Nyamakosi, the founder of Zvishamiso Zvevapostori Bishop Mufuka had already seen that the boy exhibited special hosho-playing skills and he travelled with him during his crusades. He has since become a household name.&nbsp;SPORT Nyasha Mharakurwa is Zimbabwe Wheelchair tennis Paralympian, born with a congenital deformity, a physical abnormality that a ected his legs. a multi-talented sportsman had sporting artistry that saw him becoming a formidable wheelchair racer and a wheel chair basketball player during his youthful days.&nbsp;HEALTH Dr Solomon Guramatunhu Dr Guramatunhu is an eye specialist who has been in the medical eld for over 30 years. He is a member of the international Cataract and Refractive Surgery Society of Southern africa, the international Society of Refractive Surgery, the Corneal Society and the european Vitreo-retinal Society and euretina. Guramatunhu is also the patron of the zimbabwe Rural Schools Library Trust&nbsp;RISING STARS Tanyaradzwa Muzinda Tanyaradzwa Adel muzinda is a young talented Zimbabwean motocross rider who has won the award for junior sportswoman of the year at the 2015 edition of the Annual Sports Awards.&nbsp;BUSINESS AND LAWBUSINESS AND LAW Collecting on behalf of Phillip Mataranyika, the the co-founder and Chief Executive officer of the Nyaradzo Group of Companies which was formed in March 2001 as Nyaradzo Funeral services. He is a graduate from the Institute of Marketing Management of south Africa. He was part of old Mutual for fteen years. He has won many accolades which include the businessman of the year award in 2010. the company was formed after partnering with Farai Rwodzi and timothy Chiganze in 2001, with the sole objective of providing funeral services that are in sync with the perceived African culture. He has won several awards since 1996.&nbsp;EDUCATION, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYEDUCATION, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Obert Masaraure is an activist fighting for the provision of decent education for the schoolchildren of Zimbabwe. He also works to ensure that teachers in rural areas are assisted to access adequate facilities, electricity and proper sanitation. He has organised the rural Teachers association Union (rTUZ) to give teachers a voice and to begin correcting the wrongs. Under his leadership the membership of rTUZ has grown to 35000.&nbsp;ARTS AND CULTUREARTS AND CULTURE Farai Mpfunya is the founding and Executive Director of the culture Fund of Zimbabwe Trust, a not-for-pro t development organisation serving as an active social transformation agent, working within communities through investments in innovative and sustainable creative sector capacities&nbsp;PEOPLE&#8217;S CHOICEPEOPLE&#8217;S CHOICE Cosmas and Priscilla Rongoti are the founders of Shanduko yeupenyu child care Trust&nbsp;ENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENT Collecting on behalf of Charlene Herwat, the chief executive officer of Environment Africa. Herwat is a highly respected, experienced and passionate conservationist, environmental development leader and sustainable development practitioner. Charlene has spent the last 25 years dedicated to Zimbabwe and Southern africa, to improving and uplifting communities lives through her strong belief in developing self-sustainability and to the protection and conservation of the environment&nbsp;CIVIL ACTIVISMCIVIL ACTIVISM EKENIA Chifamba has helped thousands of girls in need in the country, including rape survivors and those in need of education as well as victims of child marriages through her organisation, Shamwari Yemwanasikana. Over 35 000 girls belong to clubs sponsored by the organisation, o ering programs that include promoting leadership skills, career guidance, and con dence building. &nbsp; MEDIA AND FILM /H4> MEDIA AND FILM Charlene Mangweni is a proli c actress. a BeS graduate, she was the best student in print media and the best student post attachment in electronic media and has starred in the 2010 production, Withered Petals and is part of the cast of the local movie, Chinhoyi 7, a forthcoming movie aimed at addressing misconceptions around the country s history. </section> </article> Pictures: 100 Great Zimbabweans awards ceremony 2 Responses to PICTURES: The 100 Great Zimbabweans Awards winners Only-in-Zimbabwe June 7, 2017 at 6:33 pm # While these men and women done well in their disciplines, the overall national scorecard doesn&#8217;t allow us to waste time on useless awards of top whatever&#8230; the real heroes are always the silent ones, the ones farther from media limelight Reply Media Greatness June 7, 2017 at 11:15 pm # 100 great Zimbabweans covered by media and in media eyes.Silent waters run deep.Great is a subjective term after all.What of teachers and lecturers who have produced these so called great ones over the years?&#8230;food for thought. Reply Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Comment Name (required) Email (will not be published) (required) Website </section> Latest Popular Comments Tags PICTURES: The 100 Great Zimbabweans Awards winners June 7, 2017 Pictures: 100 Great Zimbabweans awards ceremony June 7, 2017 In the ruthless hands of Zanu PF thugs June 7, 2017 Bosso to evade PSL sanction? June 7, 2017 Mnangagwa intervenes in roadblocks impasse June 7, 2017 Trump tightens screws on Mugabe June 7, 2017 Pastor labels Makandiwa, Uebert Angel cheats January 1, 2013 Gold rains at Makandiwa service January 21, 2013 Makandiwa, Angel defiant January 8, 2013 National dress launched October 23, 2012 Newsflash: Masowe members run riot, beat up anti-riot cops May 30, 2014 Makandiwa, Angel s spiritual father in Zim May 29, 2013 wonderwize l can see highlanders lozing onother 3 points for zvambu Taura hako dhara rangu .#no more roadblocks.Rimwe Media Greatness 100 great Zimbabweans covered by media and in medi Msongelwa. Firstly these officers on roads they lack public r Nengomasha this is the level of thuggery we face in zimbabwe Taneta The youth must wake up and stop being used by Zanu Africa Cup of Nations Asiagate bulawayo Bulawayo City Council Caps United Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Chelsea COPAC courts cricket Dynamos elections FC Platinum golf Harare Harare City Council Highlanders Hwange ignatius chombo Joice Mujuru Manchester United mbada diamonds cup MDC MDC-T Morgan Tsvangirai mugabe murder music Parliament President Robert Mugabe rape Robert Mugabe rugby soccer south africa Tendai Biti tennis Warriors zambia Zanu PF ZESA ZIFA Zimbabwe Zimbabwe soccer Zimbabwe Stock Exchange MEDIA AND FILM Charlene Mangweni is a proli c actress. a BeS graduate, she was the best student in print media and the best student post attachment in electronic media and has starred in the 2010 production, Withered Petals and is part of the cast of the local movie, Chinhoyi 7, a forthcoming movie aimed at addressing misconceptions around the country s history.While these men and women done well in their disciplines, the overall national scorecard doesn&#8217;t allow us to waste time on useless awards of top whatever&#8230; the real heroes are always the silent ones, the ones farther from media limelight100 great Zimbabweans covered by media and in media eyes.Silent waters run deep.Great is a subjective term after all.What of teachers and lecturers who have produced these so called great ones over the years?&#8230;food for thought.Comment Name (required) Email (will not be published) (required) Website