THE Bulawayo High Court has dismissed an application filed by a Beitbridge police officer who was seeking a review of his case where he was charged for driving without a valid driver s licence and killed two pedestrians in contravention of the Police Act. BY SILAS NKALADetective Constable Darlington Mujabuki was challenging the Zimbabwe Republic Police s decision to charge him under the Police Act.In his application for review, Mujabuki cited hearing officer one Superintendent Gudo and Police Commissioner-General Augustine Chihuri as respondents.Mujabuki argued that Gudo s conduct was in violation of his rights to a fair trial in terms of section 69 of the Constitution.But Justice Martin Makonese said: The undisputed facts are that the applicant (Mujabuki) being a member of the police service drove a motor vehicle without a licence. He was involved in a road traffic accident which claimed the lives of two pedestrians. The applicant was charged and acquitted on culpable homicide charges in the Magistrates Court. When he was hauled before a single officer on allegation of violation of the Police Act, applicant excepted to the charges arguing that it was not competent for him to be charged in terms of the Police Act after having been charged and acquitted in terms of the ordinary law on the same allegations. The judge further said Mujabuki submitted that the trial before the single officer would be a double jeopardy and a violation of his rights.Justice Makonese said Mujabuki s application was not in order as he was seeking a review of the proceedings yet at the same time seeking the trial to be set aside.Majabuki had contended that having been acquitted by the criminal court his employer had no jurisdiction to subject him to further disciplinary proceedings.But in his ruling, Justice Makonese said it was clear that the Constitution makes specific provisions for the creation of tribunals necessary for the enforcement of discipline within the police service, security service and other disciplined forces. The argument presented by applicant has no sound legal basis. There is nothing under section 278 of the Criminal Law (Codification and Reform) Act that prohibits the prosecution of members of the police force who would have violated the Police Act, the judge said. In the circumstances the application for review has no merit whatsoever. The application be and is hereby dismissed with costs. 