 I have discovered that even the mediocre can still succeed and win. Even the fearful can achieve, once advised the first man to get to the peak of the highest mountain on earth, Edmund Hillary. Normally it is not always the intellectually gifted who get to the top of life s achievements, but it is the ordinary who are highly motivated to do things in an extra-ordinary manner, in order to produce extraordinary results. Motivation: STEVE NYAMBEToday we will be mountain climbers. The adventurous. So let s enjoy this adventure together. Don t be slanderous. Don t be a sluggard. Be vigilant. Go to the ant, you sluggards, and consider her way, thundered the Book of Proverbs.Brace up and be of good courage. This journey is not for the faint-hearted. It is a difficult endeavour, but still possible. Can you believe this?It is just the highest of all mountains. The Nepalese call it Sagarmatha. While the natives of the Tibetan regard it as Chomolungma. However the majority know it as Mount Everest.This mountain is located in Solukhumbu District, Sagarmatha Zone, Nepal. Mount Everest is a name that was given after Welsh surveyor George Everest. It stands at 29 035 feet (8 848m) above sea level. Before 1953 no one (though there are some other unofficial claims purporting to have been there before) had ever reached its peak. Many mountain climbers had tried without success. Even if many had tried and failed, did not mean that its peak could not be reached. If other people try something and fail it does not necessarily mean you will fail also. You are just unique. Unique in everything. Unique in the way you shoot your goals. Why? Because you are differently packaged for higher calling. Take full ownership of your destiny in order to become the real captain, not a mere victim.Early 1953 two men, explorer Edmund Hillary and Tenzin Norgay purposed to turn against the odds of the life s norm. To do the unheard of, that is climbing to the peak of mount Everest. This journey was going to take them quite some time to accomplish. It was strenuous. It was not easy. But, it needed dreamers who could dream different dreams and tell a new story to humanity.Many times it s good to believe in your dreams because they were given to you for a purpose, noted Katrina Mayer.Tackling something that had never been tried is sometimes exciting though dangerous to some extent. It s dangerous in that you do not really know the eventuality. While on the other hand it is also exciting as it gives you opportunity to navigate the unnavigable.The goal of reaching the mountain top was regarded as unattainable. Due to that, some could have viewed the two as candidates of the insane institution as they were going for the impossible.This could have been so because none had tried it with true vigour, total commitment and determination. It needed the appropriate zeal and willpower to do it, but none had it.However these were two man looked at the challenge and decided they could do it. Yes, it can be done. It took them seven weeks of enduring pain to reach the peak. Pain does not kill, but it only builds your inner toughness. Again where there is no pain there is no gain. So go and gain more for yourself through the so-called pain.This game was a risky one. It was dangerous to be precise. But with their strong courage they just had nothing that could stop them at all.Remember that the mountain top was snow-covered, making it difficult for any specie to survive. So very few creatures would have survived because of the low temperatures. So, in other words, it meant death, thus making it a real dangerous exploration.Though dangerous as it were, we found the committed pair aiming to go for it. The feat seemed impossible before. It was on record that it could not be broken. Don t forget that records were set to be broken. While goals are set to be achieved because nothing is impossible.Situations always seem fearsome before they are tried. Once achieved many cowards will also gain the strength to do it. Do not wait for too long, strengthen and energise the cowards by doing the impossible.Prior to embarking on their journey very few people might have been able to believe that they could complete it successful. But still they started it and went on to complete it with glitter. At 11:30am on May 29, 1953 the record was broken. Go and break yours today. What people thought to be impossible was now just possible. From then on there has been thousands and thousands of explorers who have been doing it. It has now been turned into an easy task. From the above can t we agree that most of the things people think are impossible, are just impossible only in their minds?Narrating his adventure the New Zeland explorer said: I have been seriously afraid at times, but I have used my fear as a stimulating factor rather than allowing it to paralyse me. My abilities have not been outstanding, but I have sufficient strength and determination to meet my challenges and have usually managed to succeed with them. It can be done. Be blessed. Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach. He can be contacted on +263 784 583 761 or his email: leadershiptouch@gmail.com