A FEW years ago I ,worked with a prominent magistrate, who is now late; he was a fast-rising judicial officer and, most likely, he could, by now, have been sitting in the higher courts given his documented relations with the ultimate office in the land. The man was adroit at making decisions for his age. His courts had barely any outstanding matters. He was feared too, being a resident magistrate for a vast city. He would, sadly, pass away at the zenith of his career. We got along very well, but there was a habit that he had, which I found repugnant. Some, among colleagues, would applaud him for it, but for those who truly placed weight on the law and ethics, it was not the best practice coming from a supposed judicial officer. guest column: Learnmore ZuzeLearnmore ZuzeOftentimes when we travelled to a crime scene for an inspection-in loco, it always became imperative to rush back in time to catch up with the court business of the day. With the introduction of the new 48-hour regulation, which makes it mandatory for every suspect to appear before a court within the stated time period, we would often leave crime scenes in a jiffy to carry on with proper business. Now, with him in the driving seat and approaching a roadblock, it was always a time for nerves; the man was notorious for disrespecting law enforcers manning roadblocks. He would not even bother to glance at the traffic police officers signals. In fact, police officers had to leap to safety; they could be run over. Traffic officers ended up knowing this power vehicle. The man wouldn t stop. He had no reverence for law enforcers most possibly by virtue of his title and connections. He would laugh with glee each time I pointed out that one day an uninformed officer, ignorant of his power vehicle, would shoot, but I might as well have told that to the mountains. This contempt for the law, which had my magistrate colleague cheered on by some, has become a morbid disease gripping the powerful and the celebrated of the society. It s somewhat a case of fame and power seeking futilely to override the law.Reports last week said Vice-President Phelekezela Mphoko stormed Bulawayo Central Police Station and expressed anger over the arrest of several Zanu PF activists in connection with the intra-party violence that occurred at the party s provincial offices at Davis Hall are quite disturbing. Mphoko allegedly interrogated the officer-in-charge and the Law and Order boss for nearly 20 minutes before he left. One just needs to imagine what happens when a Vice-President of a country, with his entourage, barges into a police station. Imagine the resultant fear and apprehension in the junior constables, as the influential figure walked in with his towering aides. Imagine the effect this had on the inspector at the station. Mphoko s actions defeat the entire purpose of having a judiciary system in place. Could there have been any meaningful or objective discussion that took place? Could the officer possibly have uttered a word to someone far senior to his ultimate superior? Surely, someone has to put a stop to this habit of storming police stations, at least for the law s sake. It is even more disquieting to learn that the Vice-President has done this for the second time, clearly indicating that nothing was learnt from the outcry that followed last year when he reportedly stormed a police station. In July last year, he reportedly descended on Avondale Police Station in Harare at night and ordered the release of top Zimbabwe National Road Administration officials, who had been arrested by the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission on graft allegations involving over $1 million. In essence, this (Mphoko s conduct) is precisely what any critic needs to prove the absence of the rule of law in Zimbabwe. Mphoko s behaviour must be discouraged and condemned by all progressive and well-meaning Zimbabweans, regardless of their political affiliation. This should not be about politics at all, but about the sanctity of and commitment to the law. A State whose leaders have no respect for the law is a State to be feared. Who will protect the vulnerable? Where will the weak of the society turn to? For merely holding a different view, Zimbabweans have been terrorised. In Zimbabwe, the fear factor is so strong that it is something akin to an offence to criticise the State, more so the head of State. It would appear there exists one law for the rich and famous and another for the poor and weak. Who will storm police stations and assist arrested opposition supporters? Who will intimidate the police for the weak? The behaviour is a primitive intimidation antic, which seeks to bully law enforcers carrying out their constitutional mandate. The police have a right to investigate perceived offences and to make their decisions without judiciary, executive or parliamentary influence. One wonders what the Vice-President sought to achieve by approaching a police station save to instil fear in those trying to maintain law and order.It is no wonder why some celebrities and prominent people, inspired by such untoward actions, end up doing the same. Musician, Jah Prayzah, easily comes to mind after hogging the limelight by refusing to obey traffic officers at a roadblock last year. Years back, then popular footballer, Benjani Mwaruwari was alleged to have slapped a police officer at the Botswana border post. Such disregard of the law should be condemned in the firmest of terms. A society can easily degenerate into chaos where the law is trashed simply because someone is a prominent figure. The Vice-President must respect the law; he must respect the rationale of the arresting officers. He must wait for his day in court if he felt aggrieved.This habit of wantonly disregarding the law and storming police stations must end.Learnmore Zuze is a law officer and writes in his own capacity. E-mail: lastawa77@gmail.com