LIBERIA national soccer team coach James Debbah is confident of upsetting the Warriors in their backyard despite missing several key players, including skipper William Jebor and strike partner Alex Nimely, the younger brother of Sylvanus, who is based in Russia, for the match. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKALiberia coach James Salinsa DebbahThe two sides clash in the opening match of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) Group G qualifiers at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday.Although both sides will be without some of their key players the Warriors missing star forward Khama Billiat and defender Costa Nhamoinesu it is the Lone Stars who appear the most crippled, with four players unavailable due to varying reasons.But, the Liberia gaffer, who touched down at Harare International Airport yesterday with his charges, believes he has got capable replacements that can deliver. We have four players, including the captain Jebor, who are out. Jebor lost his mother, while the others are injured. But we have got equally good replacements that can do the job, he said. I watched Zimbabwe playing at the Africa Cup of Nations in January. They have got a few good players, especially the one who was wearing number 20 (Billiat), who plays in South Africa. But we are ready for the task. Jebor, who plays his club football in Morrocco turning out for Wydad Casablanca, lost his mother this week and has been excused for the weekend match.He is the leading goalscorer in Morocco, where his side top the log standings, and could have added some bite in the Liberia team.Nimely, who plays for Norwegian side Stabaek, is a former England Under-20 international and Manchester City player, called to play for Liberia last year.He joined the English Premier League side in 2008 and stayed for six years, featuring in one Premier League game.Also out of the clash is winger Antony Laffour, who plays for South African Premiership side Mamelodi Sundowns. Like Billiat, he also missed the last Champions League tie against Esperance of Tunisia for the African champions.Debbah can look up to, among other players, Sylvanus, who plays for Spartak Moscow in Russia.He can also call up Varney Kallen of Kiatamba, who plays his club football in India, and Boison Wynney de Souza, who plays in the Spanish Segunda Division B League.Another star, Dirkir Glay, who plays in Romania, is also available for selection.Zimbabwe will start the match as favourites, having dominated their opponents in their only two meetings in 2010 in the Afcon qualifiers.The Warriors won comfortably 3-0 at the National Sports Stadium, before forcing a 1-1 draw in the reverse fixture in Monrovia courtesy of Knowledge Musona, who scored his first goal for the national team.Meanwhile, the match will be handled by Ugandan referee Alex Muhabi Nsulumbi with Mark Ssonko and Balikoowa Musa Ngobi the first and second assistant referees, while Mashood Ssali is the fourth official.Agostinho Basililo Muluta Prata of Angola is the match commissioner.