WARRIORS midfielder Marvelous Sissoko Nakamba has signed for Belgian side Club Brugge for a reported 4 million (US$4,5m) fee. BY HENRY MHARAAs revealed by NewsDaySport yesterday, the midfield enforcer arrived in the European country on Monday for his medicals.The Belgian side, who will be playing in the UEFA Champions League next season, announced on their website yesterday that the former Bantu Rovers player had passed his medicals and completed his move from Netherlands side Vitesse Arnhem on a four-year contract. After the successful completion of his medical and physical tests Marvelous Nakamba signed a contract of 4 years at the Blues this afternoon. Welcome in Brugge Marvelous!, Club Brugge announced last night.The club hold Nakamba in high esteem and hopes he will fit perfectly in the team, to replace their legendary midfielder Timmy Simmons. An energetic midfielder with excellent passing and impressive power in duels. With Timmy Simons taking on a new role at Club, signing a 6 was a priority for coach Blauw-Zwart, wrote Club Brugge.Nakamba, had been on the radar of several European clubs including Turkish giants Fenerbah e and Galatasaray. Another Belgian side Anderlecht were also keen on the player. Other reports from Netherlands yesterday suggested that the midfielder turned down offers from Italian giants Inter Milan for a move to Belgium. There was a lot of interest for the midfielder. Inter Milan also had a real interest in Nakamba. The African must be the successor to the now-40-year-old Timmy Simons. He played for years at Club Brugge as a defensive midfielder. Nakamba is supposed to assume his role. A four-year contract is ready for the African. The departure of Nakamba is another damper for Vitesse. Ricky van Wolfswinkel has also left, he is going to play for FC Basel, reported Netherlands newspaper Omroep Gelderland.He becomes Club Brugge&#8217;s sixth signing of this transfer window, and joins compatriot and Warriors captain Knowledge Musona, in the Belgian league.Musona plays for KV Oostende.Born in Hwange, Nakamba made his senior debut at Bantu Rovers in 2010, aged 16. He left the country in July 2012, to join French side Nancy before moving to Vitesse in 2014, where he signed on a four-year deal with the Arnhem side.