The past week has been eventful and engaging, as we watched different dimensions of politics unfold in the United States of America (USA) and the United Kingdom (UK). Develop me: Tapiwa GomoWhile these two countries are not liked because of their dominance over other nations and global politics in general, there is no doubt that they still hold the frames of reference on what is ideal both politically and economically. They still represent what most people aspire for their countries. They still have systems that enable checks and balances on those in power. In the USA, on June 8, the world watched James Comey, testify in a sworn testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, regarding his dismissal as Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) director and the connection between the President Donald Trump campaign team with Russian officials. The case involved the alleged attempt by Trump to derail an investigation into his national security adviser s links with Russian officials. The testimony was broadcast live and many people outside the USA followed the proceedings with a keen interest. This is not because it had anything to do with their lives, but it represents something they wish for their own countries bringing leaders to account. It just showed that decisions by politicians and those who sit in positions of power can be questioned without fear. On the same day, the United Kingdom offered a different dimension of politics elections. This followed a call by Prime ,Minister Theresa May for a snap election which received the necessary two-thirds majority in the House of Commons on April 19, 2017. While the election results demonstrated that the Conservatives were losing ground, May had hoped to get a larger majority for her party to strengthen her hand in Brexit negotiations. Again there were so many pick outs from the elections. There were no cases of violence forcing voters to vote for certain parties neither were there cases of vote fraud nor a whiff of rigging. And again people power played its part and their voices were heard. We also wish for that. For people like us in the Third World, we only watched and wish we could reach that level of democracy and maturity not that maturity that compares leaders to angels and God. There is no doubt that these events far as they maybe form part of our global environment. Our generation wishes for a democratic situation, where they feel they belong and can contribute to their development without fear. They have, over the years, acquired knowledge and aspirations, as they observe democracy occur in many other countries, whose outcome is development. They know that things can change, but our politics has to change in order for progress to happen. They want to raise their level of lives and determine their relationship with the world.They are aware that to develop the relationship with the world is to be part of it and be a key player in it than shun it or be on the fringes. They are also aware of how unfair the West has been to African countries, but they know that holding and being stationed on those grudges is not a productive way or a way out of poverty. Zimbabwe s stagnation and subsequent regression is a result of this attitude regressive and primitive politics that appears knowledgeable. This generation has endured political brutality that has devastated their dreams and they seek for a day when they can be granted the opportunity to shape decisions and make choices which would enable them to view their actions in relation to their aspirations. In doing so, they will feel they can transform the familiar into the progressive, the mundane into the intriguing. They can begin to place their environment into the wider context of revolution, progress and politics.The past two decades have been full of struggle and it still continues. It is a struggle to stop inanity, to protect development, to regain freedom and redeem ourselves from what now appears to be a non-productive and oppressive system. Our capacity to trust in ourselves and achieve happiness has been deeply affected by these painful experiences. These painful experiences are what forms the template for what this generation perceives of their happy and progressive future in the absence of the current establishment.The past two decades of pain have conditioned us with psychological lens through which we perceive ourselves and experience our world and has generated more hunger for the better. We harbour sad memories of experiencing the loss of what we used to have to the emptiness that characterise our time. We are poor not for lack of effort, but the greedy have sucked the productive energy from us. Recounting the losses incurred due to the current establishment is a painful experience and uncomfortable, but certainly a wait-and-see approach will not get us anywhere. Tapiwa Gomo is a development consultant based in Pretoria, South Africa