BULAWAYO S premier arts f te, Intwasa Arts Festival koBulawayo is expected to grow following the signing of an official partnership deal with the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA). BY SINDISO DUBEIntwasa festival fashion show in 2015ZTA chief executive officer, Karikoga Kaseke last week said Intwasa had the potential to rival the Harare International Festival of the Arts (Hifa) if it secured support.Speaking at this year s Sanganai/Hlanganani World Tourism Expo launch in Bulawayo on Thursday last week, Kaseke said the process of holding the fiesta, however, would take time. We are going to work hand-in-hand with Intwasa. I told the organisers of Intwasa that this festival can be bigger than Hifa. It won t be this year or next year, but with time. Intwasa should cease being a Bulawayo festival. We want the festival to draw tourists from all over the country and this year alone, no less than five countries should come for Intwasa, he said. ZTA first indicated its interest in Intwasa Festival koBulawayo in 2013 in the hope growing the festival would boost tourism in the city of kings. Intwasa should make our hotels full. Like (with) ZITF, if you don t book in advance, you won t be able to get accommodation. That s what we want for Intwasa. We are concerned about tourism and how the Bulawayo tourism industry boom, anything that can make our hotels full and have value, we will support it so let s work towards that, Kaseke said.Sanganai/Hkanganani World Tourism Expo will run concurrently with Intwasa from September 27 to October 1. After last year s bleak Intwasa Arts Festival, which was affected by financial constraints, ZTA has pledged to fund the annual festival, which will be in its 13th year of running. We are going to fund Intwasa and the festival will not just be any other event happening in the city during Sanganai Expo, but it will be part of the World Tourism Expo. A top international act will also grace the festival, preferably from across the Limpopo, Kaseke said.