FC PLATINUM . . . . . . . . . . . 0 HARARE CITY . . . . . . . . . . . 0NEW Harare City coach, Philani Beefy Ncube gave his paymasters hope for a brighter future after his side put on a commendable show to hold title favourites, FC Platinum in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Mandava Stadium yesterday. BY HENRY MHARA IN ZVISHAVANEBeefy joined the ambitious Harare side a few weeks ago following the demotion of Mike Madzivanyika after a dreadful start to their season.While he has managed just three points from a possible nine since taking over the reins, Beefy said he was encouraged by the way his project is taking shape.And yesterday, in front of the club s new technical director, Mark Harrison, his boys put their best performances of the season this far, although they somehow failed to get maximum points.In a first-half in which they completely dominated the hosts, it was Jerry Chipangura who came closest to give City maximum points, but directed a Martin Vengesai cross on to the upright following a quick counter attack just after the half-hour mark.So dominant were the visitors that FC Platinum coach, Norman Mapeza was forced to make a substitution in the 30th minute, pulling out Hillary Bakacheza for the experienced Charles Sibanda to try and contain the opponents who had Chipangura at the top of his game.The striker, who combined well with youngster Tatenda Tumba, also had his shot from close range saved by goalkeeper Petros Mhari in the second-half.City coach, Ncube was, however, satisfied with getting a point away from home against a team that hasn t lost a match this season. We played well today and had we converted our chances, the result would have been different. But I m happy with the result because this team hasn t lost a match, and coming away with a point feels like a win. We will take positives from this game to our next assignment. It s a process and everybody today acquitted himself well, it s unfortunate we couldn t win, but such is football, Ncube said.FC Platinum coach, Mapeza said he is starting to get worried at the number of draws by his team, with yesterday s being the sixth in 12 matches. This is two points lost, we could have done better. We had a good opportunity in the last match, which could have won the game. I m getting worried by these draws, it s worrisome particularly when you are playing at home. When playing away it s understandable, but at home, we just have to get maximum points. We need to rectify some few problems and put that ball into the back of the net, Mapeza said.Teams:FC Platinum: P Mhari, R Muduviwa, E Moyo, K Moyo, I Nekati, G Takwara, N Masuku, B Amidu (W Mhango, 77&#8242;), R Chinyengetere, T Chawapihwa (I Wadi, 84&#8242;), H Bakacheza (C Sibanda, 30&#8242;)Harare City: M Nyamupanedengu, J Tigere, T Samanja, J Chipangura, H Chapusha, M Vengesai (T Chimwemwe, 69&#8242;), R Uchena, P Mpelele, E Madhananga, T Tumba (G Kufandada, 76&#8242;), W Manondo</strong>