OPPOSITION political parties have vowed to mount pressure on the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) to set up its own central system and end an alleged unholy marriage with Israeli company Nikuv International Project and the Registrar-General s (RG) Office in coming up with a new biometric voter registration (BVR). BY BLESSED MHLANGAThe voters roll is central in the 2018 general elections and has become a focal point as political parties tussle for electoral reforms ahead of the polls.MDC-T spokesperson Obert Gutu said the expos by NewsDay that Nikuv could be roped in through the back door to manage the BVR central system, confirmed public perception that Zec was a captured institution, and was being used by Zanu PF to predetermine the 2018 general election results through manipulation of the voters roll. We are committed to force electoral reforms through litigation and political pressure. Nikuv and the RG s Office should not be allowed anywhere near the elections, he said.Gutu hailed Laxton Group for raising the red flag over the risks associated with the BVR. Since the contract to supply BVR kits was recently awarded to Laxton Group Limited, it follows, logically, that Laxton should also be contracted to supply the central system that will, among other things, include the software to be used in the BVR process, he said. We are happy that Laxton are raising concerns over Zec s planned move to contract a different company to supply the central system. Surely, how can one buy a brand new car without an engine and then hoping to buy the engine from a different supplier? This doesn t add up. People s Democratic Party (PDP) spokesperson Jacob Mafume was more radical, calling for Zec to be disbanded and be replaced by an international body to run the elections.PDP said because Zec was composed of military personnel and Central Intelligence Organisation operatives, that made it an extension of Zanu PF with no capacity to run an independent election. We specifically mentioned the probability of conniving with election rigging agencies like Nikuv, which puts voters roll data at the risk of manipulation. The development mentioned in today s NewsDay vindicates our claim, Mafume said We are, therefore, concerned when Zec is already linked to Nikuv as this will perpetuate cycles of rigged and disputed elections in the country and the rule by an unpopular elite whose basis of existence is coercion and fear. The Zimbabwe Election Support Network, (Zesn) called on Zec to act on the report by Laxton Group if the credibility of the 2018 elections was to be rescued. We call upon the Zec to clarify the issues raised in the article to enhance stakeholder confidence in the BVR process. In addition, Zec should adhere to an open data policy which allows stakeholders to track pertinent electoral developments. Failure to do so will erode confidence in the electoral processes and fuel fears that electoral outcome will be manipulated, Zesn said.The Election Resource Centre said it would be reckless to ignore how data would be processed and secured, and by who. Zec cannot afford to ignore doubts and fears as expressed by all and sundry, the electoral think-tank said.Social analyst Rashweat Mukundu said the risk report showed Zec was not in charge of the election. In as much as we want to believe that Zec is in charge, it is becoming clear that there are forces that are behind the BVR and whole electoral processes. These forces are neither constitutionally mandated to manage elections and their involvement is to push a partisan elections agenda. If the opposition is not open to these issues, then the election result is foregone, he said.Zec, however, remained mum with commission chairperson Justice Rita Makarau still not picking calls, while emailed questions remained unanswered despite numerous follow-ups with officials.