WARRIORS and Chicken Inn defender Teenage Hadebe is leaving the country today for South Africa for Premiership football giants Kaizer Chiefs pre-season preparations ahead of 2017-2018 season. BY FORTUNE MBELETeenage HadebeHadebe (22), who played his last game for Chicken Inn against ZPC Kariba on June 14, yesterday confirmed that he was on his way to Naturena, where he will hook up with fellow Zimbabweans Willard Katsande and Edmore Chirambadare. I am leaving tomorrow (today), but today (yesterday), I am travelling to Harare to meet my manager (Gibson Mahachi) before I depart for South Africa from there, he said.Chicken Inn chairman Lifa Ncube confirmed that the Warriors defender was on his way to join his new club, although he was not certain when he was leaving. I am not sure exactly when he is going to South Africa, but he will soon be joining his new club. Hadebe signed for Kaizer Chiefs last year when he went for trials. He is no longer our player, Ncube said.Kaizer Chiefs reportedly instructed Chicken Inn to stop using Hadebe who did not feature in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match against Ngezi Platinum Stars on Saturday at Luveve Stadium.Hadebe is expected to undergo fitness and medical examinations together with the rest of the Kaizer Chiefs players at the end of the week before the start of the pre-season training next week.He is due to be unveiled at Naturena next week.Mahachi was said to in a meeting yesterday and was not available to comment on Hadebe s departure for South Africa. Kaizer Chiefs have since released another Zimbabwean, striker Mitchelle Katsvairo, who has struggled to get game time at the club.The Premiership club announced last week that Katsvairo, who also featured for Chicken Inn before heading to South Africa, would be loaned out and assessed at the end of the 2017-2018 season before his fate at the club is decided. Zimbabwean forward Michelle Katsvairo will be loaned out for a season and assessed again at the end of next season before a permanent decision on his future with Amakhosi is made, the club website said. Meanwhile, Chicken Inn secretary Tavengwa Hara yesterday also confirmed that midfielder Tafadzwa Kutinyu had played his last game for the GameCocks on Saturday and was shifting base to his new club Singida United of Tanzania.Kutinyu was signed by the Tanzanian side along with the Dynamos duo Elisha Muroiwa and Wisdom Mutasa and Caps United s Simba Nhivi. Tafadzwa (Kutinyu) is leaving anytime this week to join his new club in Tanzania, Hara said.