FLOWERS blossom in the forest even if there is no one to admire them. It is just in them to flourish and give a pleasant aroma to all residents of the jungle . Motivation: STEVE NYAMBEThey do so because it s just in them to do. They love and enjoy this because that s their part to add beauty to flora and fauna. If flowers don t do that, then they would have missed their purpose.We are now in winter. Indeed, it s cold, it can t be disputed. However, I have something to warm up your mind just in a big way. On a week like this one that is about to end today, something happened 100 years back. Every day on the calendar always has significance if we peruse through the archives of history properly.All days may remind you of something special because on that day something great might have happened which you may also learn from.If you can only be positive this life has tonnes of universities which are just staggered in the corridors of history. So be willing to learn from this letter as you go on in life.The rejected letterTuesday June 6, 2017 marked exactly 100 years after Albert Einstein was issued with that disappointing letter.This letter, if it was not for his bold bravery and wired-up determination, things could not be as they are today.Einstein simply rejected the contents of the letter.Remember Einstein was that German-born theoretical physicist, who according to history went and developed the theory of relativity, which is one of the pillars of modern physics (alongside quantum physics) .Well before he became an accomplished scientist, it was just surprising that when he applied at the University of Bern for professorship, the professors then thought he could not make the grade. The professors who missed the mark Failure was what summarised what the professors thought of him. They never thought he had the potential to make it. No, never at all. He who is in you is bigger than the one in the world, the Bible says. Always, don t forget that the God-given potential in you is invisible, thus, no one can see it. Why then do you trust people s conclusions considering that they are only looking at something that s invisible and claiming that they are seeing it?So can they be able to give you a proper picture of who you are with such an ailing modus operandi?Why don t we take time together and analyse the contents of the letter Einstein once received?It read: Your application for the doctorate has not been successful at this time and as such, you are not eligible for the position of an associate professor. The letter did not end there. It continued to belittle the theories that Einstein had presented and argued that what the scientist had proposed was out of this world. Not even a rocket scientist would be able to do it. While you posed an interesting theory in your article published in Annalen der Physik, we feel that your conclusions about the nature of light and the fundamental connections between space and time are some what radical. Overall, we find your assumptions to be more artistic than actual physics, the letter, which was written by Professor Wilhelm Heinrich who was a PhD holder, ended.No matter who you are, where you stand and what you do, don t let people stand in your way. People will always have certain perceptions and opinions about you.But their opinions should never be your reality. Just leave them to remain as their opinions. Period! Why? Because these are their opinions.Consider what Dan Wester said in his presentation: The 12 things holding you back from success, he outlined three key points which are worth remembering and repeating. These points are about failure. He says: You fail because you fear what people think about you or sometimes you become comfortable with the uncomfortable or mainly because you haven t found what you are born to do. You haven t found your purposeIt is the third and last point that has been paramount. It has held many back and kept others disabled in their wheelchairs of mediocre.Let me repeat it: You haven t found what you were born to do. Once you realise that you were born for a purpose, everything will change in your favour.All your wrong perception about your self will be water under the bridge.Thus when it came to light in Einstein s life, nothing had any potential to hold him back anymore. He was now switched on. Nothing could turn him off even after being turned down. Yes, you might think that was Einstein. Sure he was. But you are no different from him. You are just gifted like him.Michaelangelo once advised: The greatest danger for most of us is not that you aim too high and we miss it, but that it was too low and we reach it. Keep your goals so high that reaching them without God s grace, becomes an unworthy race. You need Him to hold you as you face your terrifying moments of impossibility.Yes, it can be done. Be blessed.Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach. He can be contacted on +263 784 583 761 or his email: leadershiptouch@gmail.com