THE National Aids Council (NAC) and Southern Africa Aids Trust (SAT) have embarked on a pilot project focusing on integrated approach to HIV and Aids and cancer of the cervix. BY staff reportersThe pilot project, which is being run in Silobela-Kwekwe, seeks to offer a one-stop facility to women and girls, as the country battles to reduce the number of deaths caused by the two inter-linked ailments.SAT project co-ordinator, Eucaria Mushosho told parliamentarians from the Portfolio Committee on Health and the thematic committee on HIV and Aids that the project was aimed at offering integrated services to women on HIV and Aids and cancer of the cervix after realising that the two health conditions were interlinked. The project was to offer an integrated service to women and men, she said. The difference is that before, visual inspection under acertic acid (VIAC) was offered at most clinics, but under this programme, we are targeting a wholesome approach, where when a woman comes for her VIAC, she is then offered other HIV-related services. This was after a realisation of the interlink. Mushosho said the project is focusing on rural men and women, who for long had been neglected by other organisations that were offering services dealing with cancer of the cervix and prostate cancer for men. When we started, VIAC was being done in urban clinics leaving out rural health centres, she said. But here, we travel with our machines and the generator and conduct the full package for the woman. Our equipment can also scan for cancer of the prostate and we then refer the patient for further management depending on the stage of the situation. Mushosho said from the feedback received so far, the project could be spread to other parts of the country.Under this initiative, which NAC is the funding partner, SAT is using both mobile and established rural health services to carry out the HIV and cancer screening processes.In Silobela, the district medical officer, Nyasha Mwasunda said at least 34 HIV-positive women underwent cancer screening in April while 26 were screened in May.SAT director, Roselyn Dete said most HIV-positive women are prone to be infected by cancer of the cervix, which if delayed to be detected, it&#8217;s treatment could be costly.NAC spokesperson, Medelin Dube said 60% of cancer patients are HIV-positive and this, she said needed an early approach.Meanwhile, NAC conducted a one day health expo at Emganwini flea market in Bulawayo yesterday in an effort to bring health services closer to informal traders in the area.NAC district Aids coordinator, Simangaphi Moyo, said they were targeting informal traders, who hardly get time to visit clinics for such services. This is the second event, which is aimed at bringing health services to the communities, especially informal traders, who spend most of their time in their informal workplaces, she said.