FIRST Lady Grace Mugabe yesterday took a swipe at Zanu PF officials fanning factionalism in the fractious ruling party, claiming such actions were making fallen heroes turn in their graves. BY OBEY MANAYITIFirst Lady Grace MugabeSpeaking at the funeral wake of the late musician, Dickson Chingaira, popularly known as Cde Chinx, who succumbed to cancer at the weekend, Grace said infighting was unhelpful to Zanu PF. Let s remember the journey that Cde Chingaira has travelled in his life. Let s not be divided. Cde Chingaira loved his party, Zanu PF, which is why he sang songs that promoted the Zanu PF ideology, she said.This comes as the family is still in suspense over funeral arrangements, as Zanu PF is yet to announce Cde Chinx s hero status.The family was expecting to hear the party s decision from the First Lady, but she avoided the issue and spoke on the state of the party, the land reform programme and piracy, among other issues.She described Chinx as a loyal and dedicated hero.Grace said unity of purpose was key to Zimbabwe s transformation. There are some people, who forget that unity of purpose is very important among Zimbabweans, she said. There is so much fighting, there is a lot of factionalism. Is this the respect that we can give to people like Chinx? If we are not united, are we giving Chinx and other fallen heroes the respect they deserve? I, as the First Lady of this country, plead with you that if we want those who have died, some unknown heroes buried in other countries, to rest in peace and to give peace of mind to those still living, we should appreciate them through our actions. Grace emphasised the need to respect war veterans through unity. Sometimes we abuse this freedom, spend time insulting and fighting each other, she said. Those, who have died, will not have peace because there is chaos among us. Grace defended President Robert Mugabe s long and often ruinous rule, predictably blaming sanctions for the country s problems.She also took a swipe at music pirates, saying they were ruining the lives of artistes by reaping where they did not sow, adding action must be taken to protect copyrights, as many artistes, including the late Cde Chinx, struggled to make ends meet.Last month, Zimbabwe Music Awards (Zima) handed over a house to Chinx in honour of his contribution to the music industry.Grace urged Chinx s family to remain united and respect the family set-up the late musician had left behind. Chinx is survived by two wives, Patricia and Ntombizodwa, and several children.Eyebrows were raised when Ntombizodwa, who was last month humiliated by Grace, bolted out of the house weeping uncontrollably.Ntombizodwa stunned mourners when she stormed out of the house where Grace, family members and senior Zanu PF officials were sitting. Relatives, who were in hot pursuit, managed to calm her down and took her into a stationary vehicle before convincing her to return to the house.Some relatives said she broke down as she was narrating her problems to Grace.