IN this week s Episode 9 of the Pick n Pay Battle of the Chefs, Round 3 continues and with some South African cuisine that can be traced back to a very wide range of indigenous foods and a unique fusion of many different external cultural influences. BY ARTS REPORTERGetting ready for battle behind the scenesMuch of Zimbabwean cuisine is deeply influenced by South Africa, and many consider it a home away from home. Today s technical challenge is boerewors and in the kitchen the four contestants Wilson, Ednos, Carmen and Tatenda will prepare their own creation of boerewors using ingredients available to them in the TM Pick n Pay pantry. The ingredients must be fresh, tasty and full of flavour for a good boerewors, which is typically a mixture of minced beef and pork with some bacon bits, spices and herbs, thrown in, to make the boerewors taste really good.A good braai and boerewors are like hand in glove it is good party food that can be eaten as a snack hot, off that braai with a dipping sauce on the side to go with it. Winter is a good time to sit around a fire and have your gochi gochi with boerewors, garlic rolls, potato salad, sadza and gravy, not forgetting the beer!With the technical challenge done and dusted, the chefs will need to be extremely creative with ingredients in the innovation basket. Rusks, peach chutney and rooibos tea make a weird combination! How would you use these ingredients together? My guess, a dessert of some sort a Rooibos Malva pudding with vanilla custard or another typical South African dish, Bobotie with a side salad. These are some of the creations that came out of today s innovation basket.Malva pudding is another classic South African dessert. One of the key ingredients is apricot jam. Malva pudding has a spongy caramelised texture and is usually served with a creamy buttery sauce. It is sure to leave you with a sweet taste in your mouth. Watch and learn and you can be the master of this delicious dessert. Our set recipe this week is the famous Durban Bunny Chow, using chicken thighs, spices and herbs and freshly baked bread rolls from the TM Pick n Pay bakery.