BANTU Rovers head coach, Methembe Ndlovu returns in the dugout against ZPC Kariba in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Nyamhunga Stadium tomorrow after missing seven matches while on a business trip to the United States. BY FORTUNE MBELENdlovu was in charge of the first three matches, where the team lost to Chicken Inn and FC Platinum and won against Triangle, before Tshintsha Guluva roped in Joseph Sibindi as assistant coach.Sibindi won one match against Yadah FC and lost five encounters, with manager Agent Sawu in charge in the fourth match of the season against Black Rhinos, which Bantu Rovers lost in Harare.Ndlovu yesterday said his return would not bring change, as he had been in constant contact with the other members of the technical team. As much as I have been away, I said yesterday (Wednesday) to the players, I have been in constant contact with the technical team and I am part and parcel of everything that has been happening, he said. I have been part of the group and as the season progresses there are going to be times when I am going to be away. That does not mean we change a lot, I will still be in contact with the rest of the technical team. Ndlovu said he has a lot of respect for ZPC Kariba coach, Sunday Chidzambwa and Bantu Rovers go into the match as underdogs. Everyone knows he (Chidzambwa) is a legend in Zimbabwean football. He has accomplished so much as a player as well as a coach. A lot of respect goes to him. ZPC Kariba have been in the Premier League longer than Bantu Rovers and they are experienced. They are playing at home and naturally we are going as underdogs, but, at the end of the day, it s what happens between the lines, it s the players that play. Our job is really done during the week. Every now and then underdogs do get the results, but we give a lot of respect to coach Chidzambwa. Bantu Rovers have struggled in the league with only two wins and eight defeats and they face ambitious ZPC Kariba, who lost their fourth match of the season to Dynamos at the weekend.The power utility side is on 19 points from 11 games with six wins, a draw and four defeats.