THE Dumiso Dabengwa-led Zapu has waded into a land dispute in Insiza North, Matabeleland South province, confronting Zanu PF officials accused of assaulting and evicting suspected opposition supporters from the area. By NQOBANI NDLOVU/SILAS NKALAZAPU leader Dumiso DabengwaTop Zapu officials and ex-combatants from its military wing, Zimbabwe People s Revolutionary Army (Zipra), visited Insangu and Challete villages in Shangani under Chief Jahana on Tuesday to investigate the unfolding land dispute in the two villages.This follows reports that a group of suspected Zanu PF supporters stormed village head, Ernest Nxumalo s home and destroyed his huts last Sunday, accusing him of planning to allocate land to former villagers, who left the area during the colonial era.Zapu provincial chairperson, Matthew Sibanda said his party decided to intervene to protect the villagers from rogue Zanu PF elements. As Zapu, we are saying we will not stand idle while our people are being terrorised by these alleged Zanu PF criminals, he said. We are going to protect our supporters, and also we are taking legal action against the named perpetrators of this violence against defenceless villagers. Zapu secretary for arts and culture, Cosmas Mafu said: We abhor this barbaric behaviour. We did not fight for black on black oppression. We are mobilising resources to assist the affected villagers get justice, and have the criminals arrested and punished. Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson, Inspector Philisani Ndebele could not be reached for comment yesterday, as he was said to be in meetings, while Zanu PF spokesperson, Simon Khaya Moyo s mobile phone went unanswered.Meanwhile, Zapu has accused the police of repeatedly blocking its scheduled meetings in Matobo district.The opposition party s provincial legal secretary, Nicholas Dube, said police were not giving them reasons for cancellation of their meetings. The police are blocking our meetings because of the recent reburial of human remains, which we believe are of our relatives, who were killed during Gukurahundi, he said, adding Dabengwa was scheduled to address the villagers about the human remains, which continue to be discovered in the area. We have engaged a lawyer, Vuyile Mpofu, to deal with the police over the ban of our meetings. They are not giving concrete reasons of the ban. Mpofu said he was still talking to the Zapu leadership to see how they can approach the issue and will advise of progress.