Zanu PF s beleaguered political commissar, Saviour Kasukuwere lived to fight another day, after the party s politburo could not come up with a decision on his fate yesterday and instead deferred the determination to the presidium. BY STAFF REPORTERZanu PF national political commissar Saviour KasukuwereThe meeting followed last week s which again was inconclusive on the Kasukuwere matter.Zanu PF spokesman, Simon Khaya Moyo said the politburo had extensively discussed a report presented by the Speaker of Parliament Jacob Mudenda-led probe team that was investigating the genesis of a petition calling for Kasukuwere s ouster. The report by the ad hoc probe committee chaired by Cde Advocate Jacob Mudenda on the Mashonaland Central province petition was fully read to the politburo page by page, he said. There was extensive discussion of the report by the members of the politburo. The presidium will digest the discussions and make the necessary pronouncements later on the matter. Yesterday s meeting, which was expected to be high on political drama, was meant to discuss Mashonaland Central s petition to have Kasukuwere booted out for allegedly setting up parallel structures and plotting to unseat President Robert Mugabe. The politburo will be tense today (yesterday). The factions are going for broke, a source said ahead of the meeting. It is a do-or-die meeting today. The factions have gathered enough literature to bolster their positions. Videos will be shown in today s (yesterday) meeting and the stakes are very high. Before the meeting, a television set was wheeled in and speculation was high that one of the factions would use multimedia productions to make its point, with insiders saying the productions were going to show that the planning of Kasukuwere s ouster was being coordinated by expelled Zanu PF members aligned to Team Lacoste.This comes amid reports that G40 and Team Lacoste factions burnt the midnight oil ahead of the meeting in an effort to outdo each other.G40 is said to have met on Tuesday night, where they gathered evidence that the anti-Kasukuwere demonstrations were not carried out by bona fide party members.