The grace of God has made us acceptable to God in Christ Jesus. It has brought us to a place God is pleased with. Christians wrestle with satanic suggestions that we don t measure up. In Christ, we re blamelessness in God s eyes. The devil wants us to always tremble in fear that God is stretching His whip in anger because of our inadequacy. DEVOTION: Erasmus MakarimayiThe devil wants us to always tremble in fear that God is stretching His whip in anger because of our inadequacyThe devil wants us to always tremble in fear that God is stretching His whip in anger because of our inadequacySatan wants us to doubt our privileged place in God. With guilt and condemnation we cannot receive anything from God. God is love and there s no fear in love. The things of God are received in faith not fear. As we shall discuss, God is well pleased with you in Christ. The substitutionary death of Jesus reconciled us to God and brought us to Him. We re in a safe, secure and divinely approved place. Proverbs 18:10 describes: The name of the Lord is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe. As believers, we re in the name of the Lord that is Jesus Christ. It s a strong tower beyond the reach of evil. The righteous or the born again believers have run into the name of the Lord and are therefore safe. Christians have to know that they re safe now and in the world to come. We, therefore, stand and repel sickness, disease, poverty, lack and every satanic attack. Believers are not afraid of evil threats. We re not intimidated.The Gospel of Christ, the Grace of God, the Good News of Jesus Christ or the glad tidings of Jesus Christ is salvation. This means that after we received it and believed; we were saved. We were safely brought through from the kingdom of darkness to the Kingdom of God. This was all effected by and through the finished or accomplished works of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the name to safety and salvation. Acts 4:12 settles: Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. Clearly stated here is that we cannot bypass Jesus Christ to get to God. If you re born again or saved, you re in this name.God sees you through the eyes of Christ and He&#8217;s happy and pleased. Matthew 3:17 speaks of God s record about Jesus. It says: And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. God is pleased with you in Christ. God isn&#8217;t a human being and has no mood swings. At all times He s pleased with Christ Jesus. As a grace believer, let your mind be saturated with this knowledge. You don t please God because of your works, but God is pleased by the one in whom you re. Please understand that you re enveloped in Christ. Let your mind be stayed on Christ and not your works or deeds. The grace of God is not human effort but divine perfect work.We, therefore, pray and ask from God fully persuaded that we receive our heart s desires. Jesus kept the commandments for us and we believe it and enjoy the grace.1 John 3:22-23 teach: And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment. We ask standing on the assurance that we re heard. Please always read, study and apply the Bible in toto. We don t just read where it says, keep His commandments. Our hearts are open. 2 Corinthians 3:15 guides us. It reads: But even unto this day, when Moses is read, the vail is upon their heart. Believers hearts are regenerated. His substitutionary redemption accommodates us to receive the blessings of obedience. Romans 5:19 assures us, For as by one man s disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. We therefore fellowship with God with a free mind. When we ask God our Father for anything, we don t doubt. Believers, therefore, don t count commandments to keep; they believe in Jesus who took care of the law s demands. Because of God s love we produce fruit of the Spirit. We acknowledge God s love and fruits of godliness manifest in and through us. We, therefore, love one another freely. You re in Christ. God is pleased with you in Christ. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. You&#8217;re going somewhere. All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated. Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632