ZANU PF Mashonaland Central province has been thrown into another round of turbulence as rival factions have started fighting over control of President Robert Mugabe s upcoming campaign rally in the province. BY OBEY MANAYITIMartin DinhaThe province has become a political hotbed after it initiated the campaign for the ouster of Zanu PF national political commissar Saviour Kasukuwere on allegations of setting up parallel party structures to topple Mugabe.The anti-Kasukuwere campaign later spread to all the party s provinces, forcing Mugabe to order a probe into the causes of the uprisings.However, a report presented by the Jacob Mudenda-led fact-finding mission will be debated at the next politburo meeting.The main wing s provincial executive was ordered not to convene meetings until the case was finalised. This, however, does not apply to the youth league.Mashonaland Central Provincial Affairs minister Martin Dinha, who is the main antagonist in Kasukuwere s case, as well as other party officials and the police were being accused by the provincial youth executive of throwing spanners into the preparations for the rally.In an interview yesterday, provincial youth leader Isaiah Mandaza said they had been blocked for three times from convening meetings in preparation for Mugabe s visit. Right now, we are supposed to have an executive meeting on Wednesday (tomorrow) in preparation for another meeting with our provincial political commissar (Innocent) Hamandishe, but they are refusing to give us the go-ahead, he said. We are booking meetings, but we are not being cleared. The youth league and women s league were told to convene meetings. It s only the main wing that was stopped. The provincial minister is also causing us not to do meetings. It s about three meetings now that have been called off. However, on Wednesday, we will continue with our meeting. There could be disturbances if they try to deny us the right to having our meetings. We need to prepare for the coming of our President. What they want is to blame us for shambolic preparations when the President comes, but it is them who are throwing spanners. But Dinha yesterday said he had nothing to do with the allegations.He rapped Mandaza for airing his grievances through the Press before exhausting internal party processes. True and disciplined Zanu PF youths and cadres do not raise party issues through the private Press. Mandaza knows this instruction and directive and also that Cde Advocate Martin Tafara Dinha is the leader of the province in his capacity as Minister of State for Provincial Affairs in Mashonaland Central Province and President Mugabe s point man and representative. His false allegations do not deserve my response or comment, Dinha said. There is no way me, as the President s representative, will undermine my principal s programmes or events or functions. I am the President s man. For the record, be advised that we have allowed the youths and women wings to prepare fully for the presidential youth interface rally, which is still far off. We banned the other meetings on law and order grounds as we await the politburo decision on matters raised thereat. 