CONFIDENCE is a soft skill essential in the marketplace or job environment. Before people buy into your product or service, they buy into your confidence. SUCCESS LIFE: JONAH NYONIPeople don t know what s going on in the inside of you until you show it off through how you walk, shake your hand, smile or slouchedEvery person has their personal fears. It could be the fear to die or doing public speaking. These fears cripple our confidence and drain so much energy from us.I m always on stage doing public speaking, but the moment I am about to deliver my talk, my heart beats at a faster rate, my hands sweat and phlegm comes to my throat.This is natural and genuine fear. I can t stop public speaking because of that, I have learnt techniques to conquer that phobia.I usually coach people when they have been called for an interview and the number one thing that most of them ask is: How do I build my confidence? Or how do I conquer fear?This article will help you fight or suppress whatever phobia you have thereby building self-confidence. Some people hold themselves back because they lack confidence. When you have confidence, you are at you best and deliver your skills like an expert.If you have confidence you have a higher level of self-esteem. What is self-esteem? This is basically your opinion of yourself.Mkhululi Ndlovu the author of the book The VIP, once said: Fire your fears by employing confidence. Confidence is built up to its maximum when you know that your past does not disqualify or relegate your future. Confidence is the ultimate belief in your gifts, skills and abilities after all have criticised, complimented and commented on you. You should build your confidence as you would build a foundation of lasting cities that must bring wealthy investors. After all, those we lead and influence are captured by the confidence we exude with passion. Be convinced that you are here to share and express the presence of your personality positively. VIPs are grounded in their core beliefs as people of value. They are convinced that bringing value is their job description despite their imperfections in the universe. This great belief in ones self or somebodyness makes them looks toward the future with optimistic eye. VIPs believe because they know they have something to give to life, love and finances. Just do itSome people want to be perfect before they embark on any project. They wait for such a day when they think it s going to be the right time. They simplest means to fight your fear, it is just to do the very thing that you are afraid of. As the Nike mantra says, Just do it! The moment your heart pounds, Just do it!Know your worldMost people do the very things that they were not created to do, ultimately they struggle through and through in life. Know what you can do naturally and hone your skill in that line.For example, when we are at school, we know the subject we love and excel in without too much effort.I was great in literature and I aligned my career to that. Know what you are good at and do that. It s called talent, ability or purpose. Watch your mouthTalk yourself to the top. Self-talk either grounds us or makes us fly in life. We do most of the talking ourselves. The person you spend the most of the time with is you .Before anyone talks you down or up, talk rightly to yourself! Don t talk at the level of your poverty or unpleasant circumstances. PracticeProficiency or competence builds confidence. Work on your craft until you are defined by it. First, be a learner in life and stay hungry. If you have the I-know-it-all attitude, you miss on learning.Second, practise, practice and practice every day. Don t wait for an opportunity, and then you start improving your skill, but prepare before the opportunity comes. Third, put into action, the very things that you have learnt.Put up a stepBody language speaks. People don t know what s going on in the inside of you until you show it off through how you walk, shake your hand, smile or slouched. Sit up bolt upright, shoulders back, chin up and have good eye contact. Be comfortable in your own skinSome people are not comfortable about their looks or stature. They prefer to look like other.Probably that s why they put plastic surgery, bleach their skin, even extend their hair, or twitch their voice.All the times you have to appreciate who you are and learn to live with it. Just be comfortable in your own skin. Kiss some people goodbyeThere are some people that should not be in our lives. They see nothing good in us and they always offer destructive criticism and they are very negative.That s a cruel prison. The best is just to avoid them, and kick them out of your space.Parting Point: Gather strength and do it. Jack Canfield once said: People who ask confidently get more than those who are hesitant and uncertain. When you ve figured out what you want to ask for, do it with certainty, boldness and confidence. Don t be shy or feel intimidated by the experience. You may face some unexpected criticism, but be prepared for it with confidence. Jonah Nyoni is an author, success coach and certified leadership/business trainer. He is the author of Inspiration for Success and Success Within Reach. Contact details-Tel: 0772 581 918. Email: jonah@classicmail.co.za. Twitter@jonahnyoni.