BY WINSTONE ANTONIO7 Arts Theatre in HarareGrammy award-winning British soul singer, Joss Stone is set for her debut performance in the country tonight as she shares the stage with, Thamsanqa Moyo, Ammara Brown and Gemma Griffiths at the gig set for 7 Arts Theatre in Harare. Stone will perform in the country as part of her world tour, which is taking her to 196 countries courtesy of Ngoma Nehosho under the banner Ngoma Nehosho Live Sessions. Ammara BrownWarren Park BarHarare province will tomorrow host the provisional finals of the annual Chibuku Neshamwari Traditional Dance Festival at Warren Park Bar in Harare, where various traditional dance groups are set to battle it out to book the sole ticket to the national finals set for August 5 at White City Stadium in Bulawayo. The overall winners will receive $300, while the second placed will pocket $200, with in occupy third position set to receive $150. Delta Beverages are sponsors of the festival through their Chibuku brand. The festival is co-ordinated by the Zimbabwe National Traditional Dance Association in partnership with the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe.Borrowdale RacecourseMulti-award winning musician Jah Prayzah will tomorrow lead artistes Andy Muridzo, ExQ, Nutty O, Tahle, DJ Tamuka and Chiweda, who are signed under his Military Touch Movement (MTM) record label as they entertain guests at this year s edition of the OK Grand Challenge jackpot grand finale draw at Borrowdale Racecourse in Harare. The MTM artistes will share the stage with dancehall star, Killer T at the annual shopper s promotion event that is run by OK Zimbabwe. Roof Top, New Ambassador HotelShaina hitmaker, Alexio Kawara tonight serenades patrons at Roof Top, New Ambassador Hotel. He will share the stage with reggae outfits, Transit Crew, Roots Reggae and Sound House. Roof Top has become home for artistes cutting across drama, poetry, art and music operating under the name Pop-Up Book Caf .Theatre in the Park, Harare GardensRooftop Promotions this afternoon presents an emotion-provoking play, Lamentations @12 at Theatre in the Park. The play Lamentations @12 is a story of the stolen age of innocence. It encapsulates a deliberate trajectory of historical and societal norms, the lack of growth and change in attitude in various times in the human evolution or lack of it. The performance will be followed by a dialogue with Zimbabwean girls about their life, their accomplishments and challenges.Jazz 24/7Sons of the music legends, Tendai Dembo and Potifa Mopo, tonight share the stage at a show dubbed sungura fiesta slated for Jazz 24/7 in Harare. Tomorrow, the duo take their acts to Wheel and Ease (Wezhaz) Bar in Warren Park.Zebra VillageMbare dancehall star, Tawanda Mumanyi, popularly known as Seh Calaz backed by his Convicts band, on Sunday performs in his hood at Zebra Village. The Nguva Yangu hitmaker will share the stage with rising chanters Silent Killer and Tipsy, while DJ Cables and DJ General PG will be on the turntables.Jongwe CornerDancehall sensation, Kinnah Mr Mbare , tonight serenades revellers at Jongwe Corner in Hatfield alongside wheel spinners DJ Oliver Twist, Tony Touch, DJ K-oss and MC Gudo.As You Like It Caf , KaroiVeteran musician Leonard Karikoga Zhakata has a busy weekend, as he continues with his meet the fans programme that will see him travel to Karoi tonight for a performance at As You Like It Cafe. Tomorrow he will serenade revellers at The Eland Bar in Kuwadzana 6.Ritz Night Club, MasvingoPeter Moyo and Utakataka Express tonight take their latest album Mopao Mokonzi to Masvingo with a performance at Ritz Night Club. Tomorrow they travel to Beitbridge for a joint performance with Oliver Tuku Mtukudzi at Pagomba Caf before rounding their weekend shows in Harare with a performance at Jongwe Corner alongside Andy Muridzo. Big 2 Nite Club HurungweSungura musician, Romeo Gasa backed by his Extra Valembe band, tonight entertain merrymakers at Big 2 Nite Club in Zvipani Township, Hurungwe as he continues to take his latest album Bho Zvekuti to the fans.Club 263, BulawayoFlamboyant hip-hop musician, Stunner and dancehall chanter, Tocky Vibes tomorrow will be in Bulawayo for a performance at Club 263. The ever-packed Club 263 has become one of the hubs of night entertainment in Bulawayo since its new management took over the then Cloud Nine Bar and Restaurant.