TEENAGE Hadebe s handlers believe their player still has a chance of making the grade at South African Premier Soccer League side Kaizer Chiefs. BY FORTUNE MBELEThe Warriors and Chicken Inn defender had trials with the Soweto giants last year, and while reports suggested that the tall defender impressed during his stay at the club, nothing came out at the time.However, his manager Gibson Mahachi said he was still hopeful of getting a call from Kaizer Chiefs concerning the defender. The deal is on. We are still finalising. There isn t much activity for now up until the next three weeks when the South African teams begin their pre-season training. That is when we will be moving these boys, Mahachi said.Hadebe is currently with the Warriors squad, which is preparing for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Liberia at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow.If the deal materialises, Hadebe, who turns 22 in September, would be joining former Warriors skipper Willard Katsande, strikers Edmore Chirambadare and Mitchelle Katsvairo at Naturena.Reports from South Africa though are suggesting that Katsvairo, who joined last year and whose contract expires in June 2019, is likely to be loaned out due to lack of game time.Hadebe could be a second high-profile figure to leave the former league champions this year after midfielder Tafadzwa Kutinyu, who has left for Tanzanian side Singida United.Kutinyu signed for Singida in March but was loaned back to Chicken Inn.He travelled to the East African nation a week ago together with Dynamos duo Elisha Muroiwa and Wisdom Mtasa on a familiarisation mission but ended up playing in a tournament where Kutinyu was on target.Tanzania has become a new destination for Zimbabwean players with four players Method Mwanjali (Simba SC), Bruce Kangwa (Azam FC), Thabani Kamusoko and Donald Ngoma (Young Africans) already plying their trade in that country.Chicken Inn secretary Tavengwa Hara confirmed Kutinyu would be formally joining his new club next month. Kutinyu will be leaving to join Singida United next month. He is in Tanzania at the moment, but he will be back on time for the midweek match against ZPC Kariba on Wednesday. We have already made cover for Hadebe (if he joins Kaizer Chiefs) and Kutinyu. We already have our targets and it is looking good, but we can t reveal their names for now,&#8221; Hara said.