POLICE in Chitungwiza have stopped an MDC-T youth rally to commemorate the Day of the African Child claiming the meeting does not satisfy the provisions of the Public Order and Security Act. BY OBEY MANAYITIIn a letter addressed to the party s St Mary s district organising secretary Kwenje Sokole on Thursday, officer commanding Chitungwiza district Chief Superintendent Steven Kazingizi said he was not satisfied with the application. The provisions of section 29 of the Public Order and Security Act chapter 11.17 will be invoked if you decide to proceed with your event without meeting the requirements of the said Act, the letter read.MDC-T youth boss Happymore Chidziva yesterday expressed disappointment that the regulating authority had blocked their rally.In the application, the youths said they wanted to join colleagues across the continent in celebrating the Day of the African Child.In Harare police have approved a similar rally to be held in Glen View, but with strict conditions. You are expected to control the behaviour of your political party members before, during and after the commemoration. You should not alter the venue, date and time of your programme. Your political party members shall not intimidate passers-by and those who have nothing to do with your programme to attend (sic), the letter of approval read.Chidziva said the Harare rally should reflect on the hardships being faced by the majority of Zimbabweans as they prepare for next year s elections. In the context of our struggle, the youth day should be an inspiration and a compelling factor for the youths to be both the drivers and leaders in determining our future. We can&#8217;t afford to be bench warmers in matters that have to do with our future, he said. We found ourselves on the receiving side of the economic hardships because of our indifference and ignorance on important matters, which has all to do with our future. We had found comfort in outsourcing our future to people who don&#8217;t care about that future by not voting. 