PLUMTREE residents have resolved to hold a peaceful demonstration against their council over a litany of allegations, chief among them, corruption, Southern Eye has established. BY MTHANDAZO NYONIIn a letter directed to the Zimbabwe Republic Police Plumtree officer-in-charge, the Plumtree Combined Residents and Development Association (PCRADA) said the demonstration would be held on July 11. PCRADA together with Plumtree residents agreed in a feedback meeting which was held at Dingimuzi Hall on 03/06/2017 to conduct a peaceful protest against management of Plumtree Town Council for protecting corruption and abuse of office, reads the letter signed by PCRADA chairperson Richard Khumalo. People will gather at Dingumuzi Hall at 0900hrs on the 11/07/17 and proceed to the central business district using Thekwane Road to Plumtree Town office to get addressed by the PCRADA chairperson, Richard Khumalo. Reasons for demonstrations include poor service delivery by the local authority despite residents being charged for service which is not there, and open defecation, among other things. We also want the council to consider our contributions as ratepayers more seriously when they make proposals. Councillors refuse to have dialogue with ratepayers when invited for meetings concerning service delivery and way forward as far as development is concerned and also protect issues of corruption. As a result Plumtree Town Council service delivery is driven back. And most of them are dealt with internally instead of being reported to the police, read part of the letter.Residents are also against the recent resolution which was passed by council to force them to pay fixed charges of $23 and $16 for low and high-density suburbs, respectively, before they can be allowed to buy new water vouchers for their prepaid meters. It s like people are being armtwisted. Water is a number one basic need, residents said.Residents also want the water meter installation exercise to be stopped with immediate effect. Also the protest will be based on stopping regionalism and tribalism which are reportedly rife in the city council. The bottom line we want a consolidated audit to be carried out by the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing which will be based on information given by ratepayers to prevent councillors and officials from abusing their position to enrich themselves at the expense of the public. 