HIGHLANDERS have been fined $1 500 by the Premier Soccer League (PSL) for their abandoned match against FC Platinum, but the soccer body upheld the result of the match. The game, played on May 28 at Mandava Stadium, was abandoned in injury time with the score at 1-1 after police fired teargas to disperse Highlanders supporters who were throwing missiles on to the pitch in protest at FC Platinum&#8217;s equaliser. BY HENRY MHARAHighlanders supporters were unhappy with the decision by referee Brighton Chimene to award the hosts a penalty, which was converted by goalkeeper Petros Mhari, with just a minute left to play.The PSL Disciplinary Committee, which sat last week, found the Bulawayo giants not guilty over the abandonment, but charged the club for their supporters unruly behaviour. In addition to the fine which they should pay by July 31, Highlanders will also bear the costs of the hearing. The verdict was announced in a statement by the PSL yesterday evening. The Premier Soccer League Disciplinary Committee has released the judgment for the abandoned Premier Soccer League match between FC Platinum and Highlanders. The Disciplinary Committee found Highlanders FC not guilty of causing the abandonment of the match. However, Highlanders FC were found guilty of throwing missiles on to the pitch and fined the sum of $2 000, $500 of which has been suspended for the rest of the season on condition the club is not convicted of any offence involving throwing of missiles. The fine of $1 500, together with the costs of the hearing, shall be paid by July 31, 2017. Further the Disciplinary Committee ruled that the scoreline of the match shall stand at 1-1, read the PSL statement. This development will see Highlanders move to sixth place on the log standings with 21 points, one place below FC Platinum, who have the same number of points, but enjoy a better goal difference.Yesterday s punishment came just a week after Highlanders were fined $4 000 for their abandoned match against Dynamos earlier in the season, when their fans rowdy behaviour forced the game to be called off prematurely. The match, which was called off after 40 minutes at 1-1, was awarded to Dynamos on a 3-0 scoreline. Highlanders have said they will appeal this decision. Trouble started when Dynamos striker Christian Ntouba scored to cancel out a Rahman Kutsanzira goal just five minutes before the break.Highlanders fans housed at the eastern stand, popularly known as Empankweni, were not amused with second assistant referee Thomas Kusosa, who they said should have flagged Ntouba s goal for offside.They started pelting Kusosa, who had to seek refuge in the centre circle before the crowd went further and invaded the pitch, amidst futile intervention by the police and Highlanders officials. The match officials then retreated to the dressing rooms after a stoppage that went on for close to 40 minutes.