Zimbabwe international midfielder Marvellous Nakamba was last night due to sign for Belgian football giants Club Brugge in what could be considered his biggest switch. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA Marvellous NakambaThe former Bantu Rovers midfielder, who plays for Netherlands top-flight league side Vitesse Arnhem, has been linked with several top European clubs, including Turkish giants Fenerbah e, following outstanding performances for his club in the past season. Reports had suggested that he would sign for Fenerbah e this week, but NewsDay Sport can reveal that while the club had shown concrete interest, the Warriors midfielder has chosen Belgium.He flew to Belgium on Sunday for medicals.NewsDay Sport caught up with the talented midfielder at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, South Africa, where he was connecting to the European country and the 23-year-old revealed his plans to switch to the Belgian league.Club Brugge, one of the biggest sides in Belgium, were beaten to the championship by Anderlecht, but will still be playing in the Uefa Champions League. And Nakamba appears to have failed to resist the lure of Champions League football, having previously played in the Uefa Europa League.It emerged that Anderlecht had also expressed interest in the services of the Zimbabwean, but it was Club Brugge who were the quickest to bring the player on their books. I am going to Belgium for medicals and to finalise talks with Club Brugge. Everything is almost done, so I am going there for medicals and to finalise the contract, he said. There was also interest from Anderlecht, but I settled for Club Brugge. I think it s a good move because they are also playing in the Uefa Champions League. Nakamba is a key member of the Warriors and was part of the squad that qualified for the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) finals held in Gabon early this year under coach Kalisto Pasuwa. He was also in the starting 11 for the Warriors that beat Liberia 3-0 in the 2019 Afcon qualifier at the National Sports Stadium last week.If he passes the medical, he will be playing in the same league with Warriors captain Knowledge Musona, who features for KV Oostende.Born in Hwange, Nakamba made his senior debut at Bantu Rovers in 2010, aged 16.He left the country in July 2012, and had trials at French side Nancy.Nakamba officially joined Nancy in 2012, for an undisclosed fee and was assigned to the reserve team in the fourth-tier league.Three years later, he played his first match as a professional, starting in a 3-1 home win against Angers SCO.In the same year, Nakamba went on trials at Vitesse, where he impressed and was signed on a four-year deal with the Arnhem side.