FASTJET Zimbabwe has tripled flights between the Harare and Johannesburg route due to significant demand-side growth for its flights between the two cities beginning from next month. BY TATIRA ZWINOIRAFastjet currently operates up to three and soon there will be four daily flights between Harare and Johannesburg and four return flights per week between Harare and Victoria Falls.Regional marketing executive, Faith Chaitezvi, told NewsDay in emailed responses yesterday that the airline had seen positive growth in the cross-border sector since their launch in the country in 2014. We have seen very positive growth in the cross-border sector since our launch in Zimbabwe and demand continues to show positive movement between Harare and Victoria Falls. Our market-share is growing and we are encouraged as passenger volumes continue to move in a positive, upward direction, she said. There has been significant demand-side growth for fastjet flights between the two cities and, Harare to Johannesburg is an important business route between the two countries. By increasing our frequency we are offering greater flexibility to the business traveller and traders to save time and costs by giving them more flights, more often. The low cost airline, Fastjet Zimbabwe, was prompted to increase the flights after it had seen increased passenger volumes for the Harare to Johannesburg route. Fastjet Zimbabwe has grown to become a favoured airline to use in Zimbabwe for the Harare and Johannesburg route due to its cheaper prices.The airline industry in Zimbabwe has been plagued with negativity evidenced by the failures in Flyafrica Zimbabwe before the change of management and the embattled Air Zimbabwe.Concerning the prevalent cash shortages in the country, Chaitezvi said they had introduced point-of-sale (POS) machines. As a business we continue to develop ways to make it easier for our customers to do business with us. Mobile money options and bank card swiping facilities are available in all our sales shops, she said.In November last year, the board of airlines representative and South African Airways country manager, Winnie Muchanyuka, was on record saying that airlines would also accept bond notes.Chaitezvi said they were very profitable returns on the back of increased passenger volumes. We have seen very positive growth and are encouraged as passenger volumes continue to move in a positive, upward direction, she said.