THE family of St George s College triple jumper and footballer Chegetai Mapaya has denied any links with Payne Global Sports Management International, who claims to have facilitated a scholarship in the United States for the youngster. BY FORTUNE MBELEChengetayi MapayaPayne Global Sports Management International, through their representative Lovemore Dube, on Tuesday claimed they had helped the 18-year-old Mapaya to get a scholarship to study at Texas Christian University.They said he would be travelling to the US to begin his studies in August.However, Mapaya s father Takawira yesterday disowned Dube and Payne Global Sports Management International.He said his son had been offered a place at Texas Christian University, but had not been admitted and would only be writing his examinations in November and if going to the United States it could only be next year. We have no contacts with Dube or Payne. We are worried that this might even jeopardise the whole thing. Chengetai has been offered a place at the university, but has not been admitted. He has only signed a letter of intent. Our son is coached by Brenda Liepe. The deal is still very confidential and I think these guys should just keep away, Takawira said.In a statement on Tuesday, Dube said: Mapaya has been awarded a scholarship at Texas Christian University where he will study a programme of his own choice. This is as a result of the athletics workshop conducted last year by Darryl Anderson and Arnold Payne in conjunction with the National University of Science and Technology and the Bulawayo Athletics Board at White City. It has been facilitated by the Payne Global Sports Management founded by Payne. When contacted for a comment yesterday, Dube said he would respond later on in the day, but had not done so by the time of going to print.Mapaya represented the country in the African Union Sports Council Region 5 Youth Games last year where he won gold and silver in the triple jump and high jump respectively.He was voted second Junior Sportman of the Year at the Annual National Sports Awards held in Harare in January.