Sport and Recreation minister Makhosini Hlongwane yesterday said Zimbabweans should embrace yoga activities and urged them to participate fully in it, for its inherent benefits. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOSport and Recreation minister Makhosini HlongwaneHlongwane made the remarks in his prepared speech at a Yoga open session organised by Indian ambassador to Zimbabwe, Rungsung Masakui at India House in Harare ahead of the commemorations of the International Day of Yoga on Wednesday. Zimbabwe fully supports comprehensive engagement in yoga activities especially as a way to combating cardio and circulatory disorders, imbalances in metabolism, muscle tone among others and at the same time enhancing increased flexibility, respiration, energy, athletic performance and vitality, he said.Hlongwane said yoga as an activity allows individuals to soak in the pressures of this earthly-environment by connecting your spirituality to the peaceful astronomic realm and yet remains a recreational activity and not a religion. Yoga is renowned for integrating the mind, body and the soul. It is about self-acceptance and discovery. As the world sinks into economic downturn inherently attracting distresses into its communities it is advisable for the global community to seek solace and energy from sporting activities such as yoga for their recreational and renewing benefits, he said.Hlongwane s remarks were also echoed by Harare mayor Bernard Manyenyeni who said people must embrace yoga activities with open minds and relaxed bodies.Speaking to NewsDay on the sidelines of the event, Masakui said yesterday s session was one of the major events that have been line-up to commemorate the day. Today s session (yesterday) was a successful event graced by his Worship Harare mayor Bernard Manyenyeni and various organisations. Through this event I have come to realise that there are more than 30 yoga schools discovered by this event, he said. Yoga embodies unity of mind and body, thought and action and is not just about exercise, but a way to discover the sense of oneness with oneself, the world and the nature. This year marks the third commemorations of the International Day of Yoga, which was proposed by the Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi.