HIGHLANDERS are in the process of setting up an independent two-man disciplinary committee to hear the cases of its suspended assistant coaches Amini Soma-Phiri and Cosmas Zulu. BY FORTUNE MBELEThe two were served with their suspension letters last Friday for indiscipline amid allegations that they insulted each other in front of players on their way from Mandava after the abandoned Premier Soccer League match against FC Platinum and were at each other again in Harare during their game against Black Rhinos at Morris Depot.Highlanders chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube told journalists that the two people to hear the coaches cases would not be in the club s structures. We are in the process of setting a up a committee, a disciplinary committee which is not made up of people that are in active service to the club because we feel that for transparency, fairness and natural justice, other people that are possibly viewing the files for the first time will not be conflicted. We will be announcing the members of that committee next time we meet. We hope that we will be able to go through the required processes quickly so that we don t create any anxiety and any lingering questions, Dube said.He said the committee would hear the case and make recommendations to the club s executive committee. That committee will sit and hear them (Soma-Phiri and Zulu) and give a recommendation to the executive committee, who will then decide on the way forward based on the recommendations. It s a committee that will be made up of two experienced people. We will have a football person, someone experienced in football administration and someone experienced in corporate processes, hearings and has a legal mind, the Highlanders spokesperson said. As soon as we have their names confirmed, we will then set a date for the hearing according to the members of the committee s availability, but it will certainly be in a short while. Dube said.Zulu called a Press conference on Sunday where he claimed he was being censured for trying to instil professionalism in the club and for trying to rein in on Soma-Phiri, who he said had been misbehaving.Both Soma-Phiri and Zulu have since submitted their reports to the club following their suspension. Melusi Sibanda, the club s developmental side coach, is helping head coach Erol Akbay in the absence of the suspended duo.Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Matchday 15 fixturesSaturday: Chicken Inn v Ngezi Platinum (Luveve), FC Platinum v Tsholotsho (Mandava)Sunday: How Mine v Highlanders (Barbourfields), Bantu Rovers v Chapungu (Luveve), Triangle United v ZPC Kariba (Gibbo), Hwange v Shabanie Mine (Colliery), Black Rhinos v Harare City (Morris Depot), Dynamos v Bulawayo City (National Sports Stadium)Tuesday: Yadah v Caps United (Morris Depot)</strong>