There are two sticking questions in my mind. Why do some women commit so much to a violent relationship? Relationships: Kilton MoyoCould it be that some women are so desperate in life they ignore every danger and throw themselves to any Jack out there?How on earth can a man propose love to a woman only to destroy them? I am trying the best I can as a counsellor and pastor to understand what really happens in both scenarios. I am sure that my readers will help me identify the fundamental reasons, so we can come up with ways of helping each other. I am persuaded to write about this today and next week because of a spike in cases of murder of women by those who are supposed to be their lovers. How does a lover become a murderer? How does one stick with violence in the name of love? There is something that society needs to discover and that this generation needs to put right otherwise, humans are becoming like animals more than ever before. One would have thought that civilisation meant improved human attitudes towards each other and that education meant an understanding of what love is and how precious human life is too. It seems this is not the case. I think we need to interrogate ourselves and a lot of other issues too. Are these men demonic? Is this because of inner insecurities? Is it lunacy? What really could drive a man to such cruelty? I want to look at this side of issues next week, but today let me just attempt the why . I mean no offence to anyone out there, but I am just trying to see how best we can help each other.Many reasons have been given as to why a woman would commit so much to a violent relationship. I have been looking at some of them and something in me thinks these are more of excuses rather than real reasons for this strange behaviour. I think there is more to this than the reasons given. Maybe women need to help me so I can help others. Let us look at a few things here.DeceptionCould it be that somebody is deceived into believing her man will change and overcome his temper?Could it be an issue of misplaced faith in a man who does not know what love is? I am not sure, but asking around, some people spoke of deception. These violent men, most of them are charmers and pretenders of the highest order. They know how to act up and how to appeal to the tenderness of womanhood just to abuse it. This is a shame.DesperationCould it be that some women are so desperate in life they ignore every danger and throw themselves to any Jack out there? Maybe some are just looking for a livelihood and have put aside the sense of choice, thereby, compromising on quality. Somebody told me that in most cases some women feel vulnerable and want a relationship at all costs.They are afraid of leaving and living on their own because they think someone must take care of them.My million-dollar challenge is how does one help realise they are able, on their own, to be who they ought to be.Lust for trinkets Now this is strange. Some people love trinkets and love to be pampered so much that violence will not be an issue for them. They get beaten up today and tomorrow the perpetrator buys them a new phone or shoes and they forget the violence.Could this be true? Most sophisticated perpetrators have cash and know how to cheat. Maybe these men see this weakness in a woman and they manipulate it? Surely, you cannot trade your life over phones and money. You see, lust is a demonic spirit that can seduce you to your death. It keeps lying to you telling you he is now changed and is loving. No demonic spirit is capable of loving. It s all fake love. I think we need to understand that violence is not the nature of God and He does not apportion such violence for anyone in any relationship. I have heard people, who have lost the zeal to fight for their lives, claim their condition is the will of God.This is a lie. God, I mean the God of heaven, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ does not will for you violence, but peace and joy. Lust can be a trap in a selfish world like ours. Could it be that some of our daughters are victims of this seductive spirit?I could go on and on to elaborate on other issues like fear, wrong beliefs about womanhood, and things like depression, but all these and what I have said are what is on the surface and what we all rush for. I think there is more to it. I think the serious reasons are spiritual. Women in abusive relationships have given up. They have no more ambition to fight on and this is when they need society that is armed with wisdom and understanding. They tell themselves, they are hopeless and powerless. Once the situation defines their inner being they lose it all. They cease looking to the future and even think and surrender it all to the abuser. They begin to blame themselves instead of looking for a way out. They get deceived in the hope that it will be better until they are destroyed. You see, beloved, deception, desperation, fear and all others are numbing experiences. They kill the zeal to fight and this is what the enemy wants. That is why I suggest there is more spirituality in this than meets the eye.There is need to go deeper to help ourselves as a community. Maybe men need more help than women. Prisons do not rehabilitate the deceived soul of a man. Then something deeper must take place. We cannot continue like this. Women must be free from such terror and men must be free from such evil.I would love to hear more from you on this. What are your views and experiences? Let us help others.Follow us on all our social media channels and call us or write to us. You can also read our book Marriage Fitness. At Fruitful Marriages we offer you very sound, practical, relevant and restoring coaching and counseling on marriage and relationships. We are available seven days a week. Invite us or attend our meetings.Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment programme and is pastor, counsellor and author of Marriage Fitness. Call or whatsapp on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or kilton.citizenafrica@consultant.