COMEDIAN Fellistas Mai Titi Muruta yesterday said she had attracted severe criticism from people after the leaking of a one-minute 26-second video clip in which she is seen offering sex tutorials to women on how to spice up their sex lives at a private event. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOIn the video, Mai Titi, dressed in corresponding white and black shorts and top, is seen demonstrating seductive bedroom moves and positions meant to give one s sex life a boost on another woman seated on a chair while other female mentees watch. Mai Titi told NewsDay Weekender yesterday that she was saddened by such behaviour from a confidante who leaked the video. It appears I have invited trouble upon myself as I am facing denigration for the love of trying to help and save my sisters marriages after I accepted the invitation to share some bedroom secrets with them. Sadly, someone decided to leak the private, bedroom-only material to the public for reasons better known to herself, said the comedian, who has been offering sex lessons since 2008.She said she did not understand why a fellow woman, who was meant to benefit from the treasure trove of her lessons on intimacy, would betray her trust in such cruel fashion. It is unfortunate when a fellow woman takes pride in exposing their own private bedroom material, that is of help to them in their marriages, to the public. We only do this as a way of trying to help each other with teachings to protect our marriages, she said.The 30-year-old self-taught comedian said after the leaking of the video, her mobile phone had been jam-packed with messages from men requesting practicals as they mistook her for a sex pet.She threatened to name and shame the men if they continued pestering her for sex. When I am teaching my fellow women, that does not mean I am a prostitute or that I am advertising for sex. Men are now calling me and sending me messages offering huge sums of money for sex. I am not that desperate, I will expose them if they continue to trouble me, she said.Without disclosing figures, Mai Titi said she was recording brisk business, as a lot of women were engaging her services to be taught about the bedroom lessons at kitchen parties and other women s social gatherings.Some of the people who aired their views on the matter said Mai Titi was just a typical woman next door, offering teachings that are essential in any woman s life particularly those in marriages.Mai Titi has proved to be popular and has become a star overnight through her humorous skits trending on social media platforms such as Facebook, WhatsApp and YouTube.In her skits, which have seen her becoming a household name, Mai Titi speaks mostly about serious issues that people largely women have to deal with on a day-to-day basis.