TWO of Southern Africa s inspirational music talents Zimbabwe s fast-rising gospel artiste Flem B and colourful Afrojazz singer, Makhadzi, of South Africa have teamed up on a gospel album project whose distinct African appeal they say is set to make waves on the continent and beyond. BY ALBERT MASAKASouth African Afrojazz singer Makhadzi (left) and Flem BThe 2012 ZBC Video of the Year award winner, Blessing Manyangadze, popularly known as Flem B, told NewsDay his main role on the eight-track album, Flourishing, was that of producer for Makhadzi, who is also a news presenter at SABC for Phalaphala FM, although he features on two of the songs. This is Makhadzi s album. My role is mainly on the production. I also featured on two songs on her album because I wanted our nation to have a diverse and different sound on our gospel, Flem B said. She is an anointed music minister who used to sing contemporary jazz and has travelled around the world and has sung in more than eight countries, having packed-up shows. We once shared the stage in Polokwane and that s how we linked up and she asked me to produce her gospel album. Makhadzi, whose real name is Pfananani Mphelo, told NewsDay on Wednesday she jetted into the country for a two-day video shoot of two songs on the album.Makhadzi said she was an avid fan of the Handidzokere Kumba hitmaker Flem B and the two decided to work together on her album, which is set for release on March 15, after sharing the stage in South Africa last year.The South African Traditional Music Achievement award winner said she had made her name in music singing Afrojazz, but changed heart to sing gospel in 2008. Gospel is now my life. When I am singing I give it my all, she said.Flem B has shared the stage with Africa s finest gospel artistes including Sinach, drawing rapturous applause from than 100 000 crowd at the Higher Life Conference hosted by Pastor Chris in South Africa in 2013. The songs on the album are Flourishing, Kha Vha Rendwe featuring Flem B, Noyana, Mercy, You Can, Avhulekile Amasango, Wedu Mwari featuring Flem B and Wanga Murena.