WOMEN who have excelled in various sectors ranging from politics, tourism, business, civil society to media, were yesterday recognised at the Women s Top Leadership Excellence Awards ceremony held in Harare. BY STAFF REPORTERRuvheneko ParirenyatwaAmong those honoured include popular television show host Rebecca Chisamba (Special Recognition in Media &#038; Broadcasting Excellence award), media personality Ruvheneko Parirenyatwa (Top Leadership Excellence Media Brand of the Year award), Harare Provincial Affairs minister Miriam Chikukwa (Special Recognition in Community &#038; Humanitarian Leadership Excellence award), Public Service minister Priscah Mupfumira (Special Recognition in Social Services Excellence award), and Herentals Group of Colleges director Patience Benza (Special Recognition in Finance &#038; Administrative Excellence). I feel greatly honoured to be given this award in recognition of my efforts in trying to improve the lives of people through education, Benza said on receiving the award. It shows that I m doing something good for the community. I do finances which are a bit private and confidential, but with the growth and expansion of the organisation from one branch to 33 at the moment, it shows that we are apportioning resources well. I am very humbled to be among these top women here who have been honoured today. A total 60 influential women were recognised.The recognition came a day before celebrations to mark International Women s Day.Chairman of the leadership awards Enrico Sibanda said the annual awards were given in March in recognition of women who have excelled in their sectors. We have these awards every year in the month of March because it is the women s month and we use them as an opportunity to recognise women in government, industry and civil society areas who are doing well to improve our society, said Sibanda. We have a team that researches and looks at what people are doing and we look at certain referral points in terms of leadership, which we then recognise. We usually consider people who have been normally overlooked but deserving recognition. 