The building pillar and foundation of every nation is the family. Humanity is nurtured, trained, coached and groomed in the family. What we see around us today is what the family system has produced and is producing. Relationships: Kilton MoyoFamily is the gateway and if those who keep the gates do not have a clue on what to do and how to do it, then I am not surprised our family product is messed upI pray, I could have my way in the earth and would put so much resources empowering and capacitating the family, so it can produce what it was created to produce. Deception came through the family and so was sin. Family is the gateway and if those who keep the gates do not have a clue on what to do and how to do it, then I am not surprised our family product is messed up. Beloved, it is not tedious for me to repeat to you what God thinks about the family. Unless God builds a house, they labour in vain who build it; unless the lord guards the city, the watch man stays awake in vain, Psalm 127: 1 says. My prayer and my desire are for this generation to wake up and understand the agenda of God for the last days. We need not just families, but strong and sound families built by faith and focused on the plan of God who created the family. Any other family will produce for the enemy. Will produce terrorists, prostitutes, murderers, criminals, haters of the truth, liars, rebels and all you can think of and these will steal all life and joy in the family and world.If we all desire peace and progress in the world, let us pay attention to the family. What is the family producing for society? How is family training up its offspring? How best can we strengthen the family capacity to keep abreast? It all starts with your family where ever you are. What do you talk about as a family? Many families do not have conversations, I mean constructive conversations. They do not engage each other without fighting. These days our smartphones have become great thieves of family conversations and quality time. We prefer to engage the world and spooky friends at the expense of our families. We spend so much time chatting, we have no time for each other as families. Meanwhile, the devil is excited because right from the beginning he has always sought to destroy the family.When you happen to be in your living room as a family, what do you talk about? Many of us gossip, criticise all the people we know, shout at each other, stay silent, grumble about everything, talk politics and get so frustrated, curse others, and curse one another and do all those weird things. It is amazing that as families we can put to waste family opportunities to minister to each other and fill our time with such negative stuff. Off course I know that some families would talk maybe homework for children, talk Bible, talk about their church or pastor whether good or bad, some would pray and do all that stuff which is good. My question is what is the quality of these good chats?I want to encourage families to always find time together and engage in constructive dialogue and chats. Here are some suggested things we can utilise our time with as families.Value your family timeMake use of the time you have as a family. Take it as an opportunity to build each other in godliness. Bless each other. Praise and affirm each other. Encourage and inspire each other. Time is short and life is short. Impact each other with greater love as a family. After all you are a family, so you can learn together how to love God and others. Remember the Bible says if you do not love your brother whom you see every day, you are a liar and a murderer. Families have produced a lot of murderers in this way.Create time to chat and engage as familyTime is available, but will not just present itself to you. You will have to create it. Many people have time for all things except their families. Beloved it is our duty as families to find each other and keep each other and instill in our offspring the right values of life. If you look around you today you will see a lot of people who have no values at all. They cannot even value themselves.Make meal time sacred timeI will suggest that you use your dinner time as your family communion time. At least by dinner everyone would be home. That is my expectation. Make this time count. Sit around your meal and take stock of each other. Switch off your phones and television so you can concentrate on each other. Give thanks together. Catch up with everyone, how was their day etc. Worship and have communion together if you are believers. Pray for each other and let the parents bless the children.Beloved, we have a duty towards one another as families. God expects us to be each other s keepers. Share God s love with each other and then you shall be able to share it with others out there. You do not want to produce a family of hypocrites. You can turn your family around if you choose to. Even those children who have gone astray can be won back by love. I pray you will find it in your hearts to save your families in these last days. Our challenges as humanity today can be minimised if we all sort to build sound and loving families.You can get started right today. It is all in your conversation as a family. Speak well of yourselves, others and all your neighbours so your children can value other people. Speak more of Good news of Jesus than the destruction of the devil so your children can see the goodness of God even in crisis times. Put praise and worship and blessing into your family conversations and see the impact.Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment programme, and is pastor, counsellor and author of Marriage Fitness. Call or whatsapp on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or kilton.citizenafrica@consultant.com