Premier Soccer League football club Ngezi Platinum Stars have been dealt a blow ahead of next week s Caf Confederation Cup first round, first leg encounter against Angolan outfit Recreativo do Libolo at the Est dio Municipal de Calulo on March 11, following injuries to striker, Kelvin Bulaji and defender, Byron Madzokere, who have both been ruled out of the match. BY DANIEL NHAKANISOTonderai NdirayaBulaji was substituted in the first half of Ngezi s preliminary round, second leg encounter against Pamplemousse of Mauritius due to an ankle strain, while Madzokere has been struggling with a groin injury.Ngezi coach, Tonderai Ndiraya told NewsDay Sport that the duo had effectively been ruled out of the upcoming clash, but were expected to make a return ahead of the second leg in Harare a week later. Kelvin Bulaji has been ruled out of the tie. He got injured during our match against Pamplemousse and won t recover in time for next week s match. It s not a serious injury, as we initially thought, and we hope to have him back for the return leg at home, he said. We will also be without one of our key players, Byron Madzokere. He has also been struggling with a groin injury and again, he has failed to recover on time. So he won t be available for this match. So basically, we have some few injury worries, but I hope we will cope without them. Ngezi secured their passage to the first round proper of the Caf Confederation Cup after securing a 2-1 aggregate victory Pamplemousse of Mauritius.The reigning Chibuku Super Cup champions managed to hold the Mauritian side to a 1-1 draw in the first leg, before securing a hard-fought 1-0 victory in the return leg at the National Sports Stadium nine days ago to secure their passage to the next round.While Ndiraya was pleased with the result, he lamented his team s lack of competitive match fitness for the lacklustre performances against the Indian Ocean Islanders.The former Dynamos coach said he was confident that his charges would cover some ground before the match against Recreativo do Libolo, who have been active in their domestic league, which is in its sixth week. We ve a very intense fitness programme going on at the moment and we are hoping that by Friday, we would have covered some ground. In-between, we have organised some friendly matches against ZPC Munyati tomorrow (today) and either Yadah or Black Rhinos at the weekend to try and see where we are in terms of match fitness, he said.Recreativo do Libolo, who are the only remaining Angolan club in continental club football following the early exit of Primeiro do Augusto from the Caf Champions League, were handed a bye in the preliminary round.