ZIFA could be forced to settle for a local coach to guide the Warriors to the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifiers in June despite interest from foreign coaches because of financial constraints. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKANorman MapezaThe soccer-controlling body is in the hunt for a coach after severing ties with Kalisto Pasuwa following a lacklustre show at the 2017 Afcon finals in Gabon, where Zimbabwe failed to win a single match in their group and eventually exited the tournament in the first round.The Warriors job has also attracted interest from foreign coaches, but cashflow problems could force Zifa to go for a cheaper option.Zifa struggled to pay Pasuwa his $7 000 monthly salary during his tenure as Warriors coach. The soccer mother body owes him nine months salary to date, having managed to pay him for three months courtesy of Zifa benefactor Wicknell Chivayo.Unless they engage the government for assistance or secure a corporate sponsor to pay the coach s salary, in their current state, a foreign coach is beyond their reach.Several names have been linked to the job, including former Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambwa, Joey Mafero Antipas, Caps United s Lloyd Chitembwe, Bruce Grobbelaar and Rahman Gumbo.However, FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza leads the race with former Highlanders coach Madinda Ndlovu also said to be in the frame.The Zifa executive committee is set to meet this week to decide on Pasuwa s successor.A well-placed source said Mapeza was likely to be handed the job should Zifa decide to appoint a local coach, while Madinda would be the second option. Zifa wants someone with a strong character to take Zimbabwean football forward. Someone experienced a disciplinarian like Mapeza. Of course, he will not come cheap, considering where he is employed, but at the end of the day, something has to be done to take him on board because what is needed is someone who can lift our football, the source said.Chitembwe has been ruled out on the basis that he is yet to attain Caf A coaching badge. The Caps United gaffer, who won his maiden championship last season, recently attended the course in Harare, but he is still awaiting results which usually takes about three weeks. But even if he gets the results today, he would still lack post-qualification experience of at least a year.Antipas, a winner of two championships with Motor Action and Chicken Inn, is said to be too smart and soft for the job. He is currently coaching South African National First Division side AmaZulu. Grobbelaar, who also had a short stint with the Warriors, might also prove out of reach for the cash-strapped Zifa. The new Warriors coach is expected to guide the Warriors in 2019 Afcon qualifiers. Zimbabwe were drawn in Group G, together with the continent s sixth-ranked side Democratic Republic of Congo, Congo Brazzaville, ranked 17th, and Liberia, on 28th, in the qualifying draw conducted in Libreville, Gabon.