 Most of the important things in the world have been accomplished by people who have kept on trying when there seemed to be no hope at all, articulates Dale Carnage the renowned human relations expert. Motivation: STEVE NYAMBEThis is how your life revolves. There will be obstacles. There will be mistakes. There will discouragements. There will be roadblocks and detours. All these must not hinder you because with faith there is no limit to what you can achieve in your quest for greatness.Today my burning desire and aim is to help you sift real issues from chuff and take you to the higher grounds. Higher than the flying territory of eagles. We will fly up into the blue skies, as we partake this motivational diet together.While up there storms may arise. But with your strong willpower of determination nothing will stand in your way. Why not pluck a number of lessons from the life of this athlete?Does the name Elkamony Anwar sounds familiar to you? If not, fasten your belts, let us take this exciting journey together. Hold firm, because what you are about to read will reshuffle your feathers. It will shack you from underneath. It make you think the unthinkable. While at the same time keeping your spirit eager and rejuvenated for success.Here is the great story.Elkamony was just an ordinary young man. He was born in Egypt on May 1, 1983. He decided to play tennis at 21 and turned professional at 23. What a paradox, because this was an achievable goal.Since very few can start to play tennis at this age and greatly succeed. It made many people to doubt him and think he was just chasing his own shadow. Impossible was what summarised their view. It appeared to be a mere lunatic move to many, but not to him.Marva Collins then goes on to emphasize his attitude by saying: Determination and perseverance move the world, thinking that others will do it for you is a sure way to fall. Remember if you always move by following the crowd you will never get anywhere. Sometimes life demands that you create new ways for yourself. Real ways no matter what it will take.The serious training programmeSo, because of his zeal, commitment and determination he decided to go to Spain for greener pastures. During this period he became more serious about his training programme. This made him attain an unheard efficiency level of 120%. This efficiency caused his game to become a marvel to watch. It was just superb.This is the same time he realised it was now important to move to France. While in France he met an exciting coach Karim Al Aloui. Aloui developed much faith in him. He was convinced that this goal was possible and together they could defy expectations. So they worked together to try and achieve their seemingly impossible goal. It was during this trying period when the Press started publishing negative news about Elkamony s performance. In one instance the newspaper wrote: Elkamony is a fake champion, he is just using any means to become famous, even if it s a crazy idea. However, Elkamony was never moved by this. Not even an inch.Unfortunately this negative publicity forced his coach to part ways with him.No matter what happens, always bear in mind that, where there is a will there is a way. Difficulty moments always help you graduate from being a mere boy into manhood.The power of a positive thinking coachThe enthusiastic tennis ace later met the great coach Fernando. Fernando was shocked by the level of fitness Elkamony had achieved in a short space of time. Again he never stopped. He continued with his powerful training methods, till he seriously injured his back. Now he could not stand on his own. This hiccup forced him to practise from the chair. Yes, you can no matter what!Later on after the injury recovery he played, an international tournament. This was a tournament, which was reserved for the cream of the crop. It was not for the amateurs. Due to his mental toughness and fortress he played and won. Becoming the first player in history, at 23, to be a Association of Tennis Professionals player, he explains.During the second tournament he collapsed while playing. He was later diagnosed with failure of bone marrow. Once again the press attacked him even though he was standing between life and death. Doctors believed he was going to die. So they proposed to ampute his hand because circulation had ceased and he was now getting little or no blood. To add salt to the wound his weight ballooned to 125kg. It was terrible. Pathetic to be precise. It was a great injury to his career.Even though, Elkamony s dream didn t die. His complete determination later made the impossible possible. Against all odds Elkamony came back a stronger person than before. He never lost the sight of his great dream. So can you. Don t forget that, the difference between successful people and others is not lack of strength, not lack of knowledge, but rather lack of will, concludes Vince Lombard Jnr. It can be done. Be blessed. Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach. He can be contacted on +263 784 583 76 or on his email: leadershiptouch@agnail.com