ZESA subsidiary and its ICT wing, Powertel Communications, have added another convenience to the end user of prepaid electricity by introducing prepaid electricity scratch cards. The scratch cards will soon be availed at every convenience point street corners, retail outlets, shops, general dealers, kiosks and hairdressing salons under a power-packed campaign dubbed Magetsi Kwese Kwese. BY BUSINESS CORRESPONDENTPowertel Communications is quickly rising to the task of its national duty which is to ensure that there is creation of an intertwined network to ensure optimal distribution and access to electricity top-up service across the country.In March 2013, the government, through the Energy and Power Development ministry, appointed Powertel Communications to be the aggregator for the pre-paid electricity top-up service because of its strategic role of providing ICTs and Innovations in the Zesa Holdings Group. The entire prepaid electricity service is aggregated through Powertel working closely with the ZETDC and the appointed partners who include ZB Bank, CBZ Bank, Agri-Bank, POSB, Petrotrade, Homelink, GetCash, NetOne and, most recently, Ecocash. The service is now available through varying platforms which includes over-the- counter (OTC), Point of Sale, ATMs, Mobile Money platforms, Mobile Applications, online platforms and now the new convenience of Kwese Kwese with the scratch cards. This will undeniably result in increased reliability, increased convenience and increased efficiency as well as improving livelihoods through additional employment creation and revenue generation.When reached for comment on how the Powerplus recharge cards work, Powertel Communications marketing manager Prosper Mutswiri explained: The mechanics of the Powerplus prepaid electricity scratch card is as easy as 1-2-3.One simply buys their scratch card from their nearest vendor and scratches on the sealed panel to reveal the voucher number. You then send an SMS to 434 (currently redeemable on NetOne, Telecel and Powertel s 08611 numbers more platforms to be availed soon) in the below format:-zetdc*vouchernumber*meternumber eg zetdc*123456789*375900000 and send to 434. You will receive your SMS with the token number and topup your electricity on the stated meter. The beauty of the system is you do not require to be online to receive your recharge token. Furthermore, the system itself is very fool-proof and secure as all top-up scratch cards are encrypted and have a unique serial and batch number. 