The Gays and Lesbians of Zimbabwe (GALZ) joins hands with Zimbabwean and the international communities in celebrating International Women s Day! The theme #BeBoldForChange affirms inherent worth and dignity of every person calling for justice, equity, and compassion in human relations.Zimbabwe, among other African nations, has taken a bid in ending child marriages. Child marriage is a violation of children s human rights.Despite being prohibited by international law, it continues to rob millions of girls under 18 around the world of their childhood. Early marriage denies girls their right to make vital decisions about their sexual health, sexual identity and well-being.Approximately one in three girls in Zimbabwe are married before their 18th birthday. Child marriage predominantly affects girls who live in poverty and in rural areas. Girls from the poorest 20% of the households are more than four times as likely to be married/in union before age 18 than girls from the richest 20% of the households. This hinders them from enjoying their childhood and attainment of their highest level of education. The less education a girl has, the more she is likely to marry during her childhood.Some cultural and religious practices continue to impede opportunities for young girls in access education, right to sexual and reproductive health services and information and promote early child marriages. Lesbians and bisexual women have also experienced forced or coerced marriages. They experience sexual harassment from male counterparts within families, workplaces, social and public spaces due to patriarchal systems that promote the dominance and subordination of women. The dignity of all women should be protected in all social realms. The church, government, community leaders and civil society have a role to play in promoting women s rights and give equal opportunities for women to #BeBoldForChange in Zimbabwe.GALZ encourages the Zimbabwean society and the international community to continue promoting and empowering all women to realise and attain their highest potential.The organisation made a clarion call for all to be bold enough and promote the right of women, advocate for gender equity and equal access to education, national resources and healthcare. Being acknowledged begins with women themselves connecting and influencing each other s lives without discrimination. GALZ called for boldness in embracing women of a different sexual orientation, who needed support in respect of their rights and the protection of those rights. GALZ is an organisation that fosters and promotes the right of every individual to realise and understand their sexual orientation in order to live and experience their full potential.