Zimbabwe s politics continues to be prolific and dynamic, but less progressive. The Zimbabwe People s First party has taken its first burficate, with Joice Mujuru renaming her party to National People s Party. Develop me: Tapiwa GomoIn a way, it was a smart move, considering that battles for political party names can be emotionally draining.History shows that contests for names can be manipulated by the establishment to derail the bigger picture. And Mujuru s party required that cleansing to earn the people s trust and support.These political developments are symptomatic of an oppressed society more political movements to fight poverty and oppression, rebranding of their names ducking from infiltration and less economic growth and productivity. The other side of the divide is dominated by stories of plunder, opulence and battles to inherit the throne. The balancing factors are numbers, power and money. The poor have the numbers, while the rich have the power and money.When these factors collide in a battlefield, the effect is destruction and more suffering. The people will use their numbers to fight the oppressors, while the rich will rather use their money to defend and protect themselves.Because the two worlds cannot converse, these two sets of important energy useful for development goes to waste because of the selfishness of the rich and powerful. It is common sense that real development cannot happen in an environment of oppression because development ceases to be a priority to the oppressed, but freedom.When the people stop participating in national development, the economy cannot grow. The priority is to free themselves first before they seek development.This is why today, civil society movements attract more people because their priority is freedom and humanisation and not to develop a country where they lack freedom and dignity.The people are content to engage in a protracted and risky struggle to thwart injustice, exploitation, oppression, and the forces of the oppressor which rob them of their humanity, dignity and identity.Any development policy that neglects these factors, no matter how good it is, is bound to fail because it is misplaced in a distorted environment, which is void of the convergence of priorities.The rich and the powerful are now far removed from the people, while poverty and fear have also drifted the poor from engaging with the rich and powerful.The only moment the rich and the poor meet is when the rich and the powerful are exchanging votes for a bag of maize.Once that transaction is finalised in the polling booth, the dialogue between the two ceases to exist until the next election. This transaction, however, does not mean consent or compliance, but is merely an act of fear and is also counterproductive as it delays liberation.The poor are aware that a vote lasts a full term in office for the rich and the powerful, while a bag of maize lasts a week for the poor. The poor are aware that refusal to take the offer from the rich and powerful attracts direct or indirect punishment with deadly long-term consequences.In such a context, waging a struggle for determination and overcoming marginalisation would be futile and detrimental. This involuntary compliance also amounts to a deliberate act of counter production, which dents the power base of the rich and the powerful. History, however, shows that systems of oppression have a life span and have a limited shelf life.This is because the oppressors cannot find power or repent and pursue a liberation agenda for the same people they have been oppressing.The only destiny for the oppressors is their downfall either by nature or through a struggle. Victory for the people cannot be won by sharing power with the oppressor, but by gaining freedom and holding the oppressors accountable. The combination of those two defines victory and determines the ability of a nation to move on.Generally, the oppressors lack destiny because they are corrosive and they are ideologically stagnant which makes them shrink and rot from within, giving the needed manure to the poor to grow and mount a struggle.It is as simple as a junior uniformed officer, who was deployed to beat up people in the 2002 presidential election, and is now a parent of grown up children, who can no longer survive on paltry crumbs from the rich and powerful. That officer or their children are forced to join the people. There are many of those whose silence is mistaken for being on the fence and yet their hearts are yearning for change. This was evident in The Gambia s recent change of power. The spirit of the struggle for liberation does not die, but hibernates in people to gather momentum.As the system weakens due to age and disintegration, the people are gaining power and they only require organisation to spearhead the struggle.For now, they cannot be productive as they need to pursue liberation.Tapiwa Gomo is a development consultant based in Pretoria, South Africa