These are undoubtedly trying times in terms of sustaining loan contracts and credit agreements. Incidents of breach and default are increasing as more and more people face financial distress. Many people find themselves unable to keep up with instalments and repayment of loans and debts. Continuing from last week, we will discuss some salient aspects of breaching hire purchase and loan and credit agreements. The principles of breach of contract apply generally. Rights: MIRIAM TOSE MAJOMEConsumer credit contractsCredit contracts are agreements or arrangements to borrow money with registered entities that are legally permitted to provide such services. These are such as retailers, wholesalers, finance and discount houses and banks, among others. Personal loans do not apply although they give rise to perfectly legal obligations and are enforceable at law. We will discuss personal loans and debt collection next week. Credit contracts allow for deferred payments for goods and services for personal and household use. Loans and credit facilities can be secured or unsecured. If they are secured an item of equal or more value is pledged to secure the loan to the creditor s advantage. The lender is allowed to hold on to the security, but cannot dispose of it or sell it without a court order. Hire purchase agreements, bank overdrafts, credit cards or a lay by sale agreements are examples of consumer credit contracts.Purchaser can terminate agreementA lessee in a hire purchase agreement is allowed to cancel the lease agreement at any time before the final payment. They are able to return the goods to the seller if they no longer want them. The only requirement is to give proper formal notice and ensure that all instalments are paid up to the date of surrender of the goods. There is nothing peculiar or odd about this because the seller owns the goods during the period of hire purchase and ownership only passes after completion of payment.Default of paymentsThe consequences of breach are normally clearly stated in standard credit facility agreements. It is prudent to read the entire document carefully including the fine print. In the event of a breach or default the loan or credit facilities provider will be entitled to claim all the outstanding amount due immediately. This means cancelling any further loan instalments and demanding that all the money be paid at once. Fortunately in this country most loan providers are willing to overlook one or two unpaid instalments and will only take sterner measures when the breach is excessive. Most debtors too are reasonable people and they usually make up for the few defaults in the following months. However, some fail even with the best intentions, while some do not try at all and hide behind the excuse that everybody knows things are hard at the moment and that there if no money in the economy. Most creditors are indeed reasonable and are open to discussing and entertaining genuine problems and usually grant concessions within reason. The dishonourable thing is for a debtor to wait to be chased around and only pay when reminded and threatened with legal action. Breaching hire purchase agreementsIn the event of a default the facility provider is entitled to repossess the leased goods. The repossession clause is ordinarily part of hire purchase agreements. Notably if the goods are repossessed it does not wipe off the obligation as the debtor will still be liable for outstanding instalments up to the time of repossession.Obligations could also accrue from damage caused by recklessness and vandalism to the leased goods. The lessor/owner of the goods has a choice to either repossess the goods or can simply sue for damages. Judgment can be passed against the debtor which could result in attachment of other goods of value or blacklisting or civil imprisonment. Responsible lendingIt is irresponsible to lend money to just anybody who applies for a loan. The lender has a duty to properly and soberly weigh the capacity of each potential debtor. Certain people are simply not creditworthy. Reasonable skill and care should be taken to avoid reckless lending. Lenders must as far as possible use their skills and experience to ascertain the debtor s ability, capacity and willingness to pay. Character assessments and reference checks should be made. The lender must disclose all relevant and useful information and must not conceal important facts that are attendant to the agreement. The lender must not be unnecessarily harsh and intolerant of a few breaches.This is important particularly in this trying environment where people are losing jobs or are not being paid or being paid late. Responsible borrowingThe borrower s first and most important duty is to pay instalments on time. They must not take loans or enter into credit agreements when they know they will be unable or unwilling to pay. They must take care of the goods they are leasing. If they face difficulties, they must be open with the facility provider and suggest an alternative payment plan. They must not wait to pay instalments only when hunted down and cornered.Miriam Tose Majome is a lawyer and a teacher. She can be contacted on enquiries@legalpractitioners.org