MINES and Mining Development minister Walter Chidakwa has been ordered to facilitate the transfer of ownership of a mine in Mashava after Bulawayo High Court Judge Justice Nicholas Mathonsi ruled in one Luckson Zondo s favour. BY SILAS NKALAMines minister Walter ChidakwaMinister Chidakwa, the provincial mining director of Masvingo district and former owner of Texas 8 Mine Mashava number 7283, Morgan Graham were cited as respondents in the case. Zondo made an application for default judgment after the respondents delayed filing opposing papers. In his ruling, Mathonsi said Graham should within five days sign all documents necessary to effect transfer of Texas 8 Mine Mashava to Zondo, whose application had sought the same relief. In the event of first respondent (Graham) failing, the sheriff of the court be and is hereby authorised and directed to sign all the necessary documents to transfer the said mining claim to plaintiff, Mathonsi ruled. The second and third respondents (provincial mining director and minister) be and are hereby ordered to effect the said transfer. Zondo had also asked the court for an order on costs. In his application Zondo narrated events leading to the suit. Sometime in 2009 the first defendant approached the plaintiff requesting a loan of $10 000 which loan plaintiff duly advanced to him. Upon realising that he could not repay the loan, first defendant proceeded to offer plaintiff 50% stake in the mine in lieu of repayment of the $10 000 loan. Plaintiff acceded to the offer on the express condition that they would share profits equally and the defendant would change the name on the mining claim certificate from that of his own to a syndicate comprising himself and plaintiff. There after the first respondent decided to sell his remaining stake to the plaintiff for an agreed purchase price of $54 000 which plaintiff paid in full, reads the summons.Zondo said Graham later reneged on changing the names of the mine to his, claiming that the certificates were locked in a safe, whose keys were with his wife who was in Cyprus.The applicant added that Graham had again failed to effect the name change even after his wife returned, forcing Zondo to approach the courts.