IN a shocking and life-threatening incident, an overzealous Kadoma man pulled a gun on rapper Tehn Diamond after his performance at the Odyssey in Kadoma. By Sindiso DubeTehn DiamondThe fracas, which was witnessed by NewsDay, started when a visibly drunk unidentified man forcibly entered the VVIP arena and threatened to beat up people including this reporter for no reason, before he was thrown out of the arena by the security team. The man then pounced on Tehn Diamond, who was busy taking pictures with his fans, resulting in some pushing and shoving between the two before he drew a pistol threatening to shoot the rapper.The gun-toting man quickly fled the scene before the security team could apprehend him. Tehn Diamond was not amused by the turn of events. It s bad when things turn out like this after a successful show. Violence should be condemned, he said. This tour has shown me how hip-hop is appreciated in different cities, the fans from the different cities we have toured have been nothing but awesome, this gasses us up to do more and we promise to do more shows after the tour.We will definitely revisit every city when the tour is over. Tehn Diamond and his touring crew which included Ammara Brown, Simba Tagz, Take Fizzo, Thaiwanda Thai and Sinbad 90, who was a supporting act from Kadoma, then left the club to their hotel room after taking pictures with fans.The tour, which was meant to market Tehn Diamond s latest album A Few Good Poems (AFGP) has been to Harare, Mutare, Marondera and Kadoma. Tehn Diamond opened the show with his yesteryear hits Happy and Realness, much to the excitement of appreciative crowd before leading the audience into his new album.Tehn Diamond kept the crowd dancing and singing along to No Stress featuring Thaiwanda Thai, Bho Tsano and Give Thanks featuring Simba Tagz, before being joined by Ammara Brown on stage. Ammara Brown performed with Tehn Diamond before she went on a solo act, jamming out hits such as Mukoko, Watchu want and Bhachura.The audience was glued to the vivacious Ammara, as she performed her gyrating dances for the greater part of her slot.The tour continues this Friday in Gweru (Club Eclipse) then Club Connect in Bulawayo on Saturday.