THREE Harare men, who terrorised communities in the Guruve communal lands, stealing and slaughtering beasts for sale, were recently slapped with a combined 102-year jail term after being convicted of stocktheft by Guruve resident magistrate Augustine Borerwe. BY CHARLES LAITONThe trio Tinei Chiriseri (25), Simon Takura Musakwa (32) and Dickson Sapangwa (31) were sentenced to 34 years each for stealing five beasts from Chibiade and Dzvukamanja villages between November 1 and 5, 2011.They have since approached the High Court, seeking bail pending appeal and their matter is set to be heard today.In passing sentence, Borerwe castigated the trio s action, saying they deserved to be removed from society. Stocktheft is a very serious and prevalent offence. Perpetrators, as accused persons, therefore, need to be dealt with in a manner in which society should be left with confidence in the justice delivery system. They are a menace to society. Cattle are a symbol of wealth and to steal and slaughter people s cattle in the manner described is unforgivable, Borerwe said. The accused carried out a series of stockthefts within the Guruve area having come all the way from Harare for this purpose. The community itself has not only been shocked, but disgusted at the manner in which the offences were committed. Callous is the only way to describe the accused s conduct for they would suffocate the stolen beasts, and then carefully rip off the steak, leaving the carcasses at the scene and the rest of the offals. The magistrate praised police determination involved in a high-risk chase and firing shots at the getaway vehicle. On the first occasion they slaughtered three cattle. Boldness and greed took over and three days later they were in the area, but this time their luck ran out and they were caught. Needless to say this was after an almost 80km high-risk chase in which their vehicle had to be eventually shot at. They were very determined such that had it not been for the bravery and persistence of the police officers involved, they could not have been caught, the magistrate said. There being no special circumstances in the cases, the court has no choice, but to impose the sentence prescribed in such circumstances. The vehicle, a Toyota Spacio, which was used in the commission of the offence, was forfeited to the State.