FIRST Lady Grace Mugabe (pictured) has been accused of being behind the chaos which has seen Bulawayo Provincial Affairs minister Eunice Sandi-Moyo and women s league treasurer Sarah Mahoka thrown under the bus in an attempt to clear the path for her ascendency to Vice-Presidency. BY BLESSED MHLANGAZimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association, secretary-general, Victor Matemadanda said the current chaos and allegations were only a smoke screen aimed at targeting Sandi-Moyo, who is the most senior Zapu member and could be rightly in line to be Vice-President if the women quota system is implemented in Zanu PF. Today (Thursday) they have demonstrations against Sandi-Moyo and Mahoka. The person being targeted is Sandi, Mahoka is just a cover. They want to get rid of Zapu, but they cannot push out Sandi alone it has to have significance and Mahoka now is only suffering for Sandi. Why Sandi? Because she becomes senior and she might challenge on the woman vice-president position. How can we have a leadership that is so small and myopic, instead of dealing with the economic challenges they fund demonstrations, just to pave way for positions, he said.Matemadanda said the demonstrations had only one net effect of weakening Zanu PF and destroying its legacy as the liberator because it has failed to deliver the promises of the liberation struggle to the people of Zimbabwe. I think if we are really serious about strengthening the party we must all be against Grace&#8217;s shenanigans and stop her from this wholesome and mob-expulsion of party members although we all know that these two women affected were her foot soldiers, accomplices and partners in the same crime they are faced with today. Let&#8217;s show them that the real and genuine supporters of Zanu PF and those who are advocating for VP Mnangagwa to take over are for party rebranding and not party destruction. This is notwithstanding the fact that we were expelled from the party, he said.Sandi-Moyo and Mahoka stand accused of a litany of crimes among them disrespecting Grace, Vice President Mnangagwa as well as Mugabe s spokesperson George Charamba, the setting up of parallel structures and making decisions without consulting the First Lady, who is the women s league boss.