A BULAWAYO couple, believed to be staunch supporters of the G40 faction in Zanu PF, has been fined $200 each after being convicted on charges of assaulting a fellow ruling party member belonging to the rival Team Lacoste camp, which is linked to Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa. BY SILAS NKALAVice President Emmerson MnangagwaNtombiyelanga Dube (34) and her husband Andifas Banda (38), of Magwegwe North, assaulted Zanu PF activist Obert Msindo (38) of Tshabalala at a Bulawayo hotel just before President Robert Mugabe s 93rd birth day bash in Matopos last month.The two were denying the charges of assault and theft of $200 when they appeared before Bulawayo magistrate Franklin Mkhwananzi. According to court papers gleaned by Southern Eye yesterday, Dube was convicted of assault and fined $200, but was acquitted on theft the charge.Banda was convicted of theft and ordered to pay a fine of $200. He was also ordered to restitute Msindo his $200.The Zanu PF activists were booked in a hotel in Bulawayo on February 19 where cases of violence among party members were reportedly rampant.Msindo caused the arrest of Dube and Banda after he accused them of assaulting him and stealing his $200 for supporting Team Lacoste. Dube came to me and removed the cap which I was wearing accusing me of supporting Lacoste, a faction within the party. The cap had an inscription No to corruption , he said in his statement to the police. After a while Dube came back wearing a different cap. I took it, but he snatched it away again. Msindo said he discovered that Dube had placed his cap between her breasts. When he later inquired about his cap, Dube grabbed him by the collar and started assaulting him before smashing a beer bottle and using it to stab him. That is when Banda joined in and hit me on the head with a beer bottle. He forcibly removed my sports jacket and stole my $200. He tossed by jacket and said he took my money and would spend it, Msindo said. Then I was already bleeding through the nose and I went to report to the police who referred me to hospital. This led to their arrest. Raymond Makaza prosecuted the case.