DYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa is pleased with the way his team s preparations for the new season have progressed after seeing his side play out a nil-all draw against Black Rhinos in a friendly match at Gwanzura Stadium yesterday. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAMutasa, however, wants to see improvements in attack, having drawn blanks against a Black Rhinos side returning to the topflight league. Our preparations are going on smoothly. I think we are slowly getting there. But we still need to improve in a number of areas, especially in attack, he said after the match. DeMbare paraded a potential new signing, Quality Kangadze, and Mutasa was pleased with what he saw of him. Kangadzi was playing his first match for us and I think in the 30 minutes that he played, he did well. He has a lot of potential. We will see by Tuesday (tomorrow) whether we could sign him or not. Our focus for now was concentrating on this match, Mutasa said.Kangadzi scored three goals for Trojan Mine, including a brilliant free kick in the 3-3 draw against Dynamos in a friendly match two weeks ago.His goals caught the eye of Mutasa, who requested the player to come and train with them so that they can assess him with the possibility of signing him on.The Harare football giants, who are gearing up for the 2017 Premier Soccer League season took their preparations to Mozambique last month, where they were involved in a series of friendly matches.They played bitter rivals Caps United in the ZNA Charity Shield and were booted out of the competition after a 3-1 defeat. The club hierarchy has reshuffled their technical department after roping in Biggie Zuze from Triangle as an assistant to Mutasa. He replaced Murape Murape, who was relieved of his duties after he came short of the new requirements by Zifa for a coach to have at least a Caf A coaching badge to sit on the technical bench .Dynamos finished in fifth position last term behind eventual champions Caps United, runners up FC Platinum and Highlanders who finished third.