The Women s Microfinance Bank has been long in coming for perhaps five or six years it has been on the lips of those who care about women empowerment. While such a bank is necessary, one must question the rationale of government owning it. Financial Spotlight: Omen MuzaWomen Affairs, Gender and Community Development minister Nyasha ChikwinyaFirst, government currently doesn t have the means to capitalise the bank as proven by the fact that it has consistently failed to capitalise the likes of Small and Medium Enterprises Development Corporation (SMEDCO), which play more or less the same role as that envisaged for the women s bank. In the past, there have been budget allocations, which have not been subsequently backed up by actual disbursement of funds. Secondly, government should be playing a facilitatory role, rather than becoming a player itself that is what international best practice says. In June 2004, the Group of Eight (G8) endorsed the Key Principles of Microfinance developed (and endorsed) by Consultative Group to Assist the Poor s 28 public and private member donors, at a meeting of heads of State in Sea Island, Georgia, USA. Principle number 8 posits that the job of government is to enable financial services, not to provide them directly. This is because governments can almost never do a good job of lending, but they can set a supporting policy environment. In short, governments typically make bad lenders and they in turn tend to attract equally bad borrowers.While government appears hell-bent on establishing this specialised bank, all existing banks have also been requested to create Women s Desks by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ). Instead of creating an entirely new bank, why not just avail the funds meant to recapitalise this institution to these banks, so that they can lend to our beloved women at concessionary rates? Government is big on sharing infrastructure and has been breathing down the necks of private sector players about this imperative, yet it insists on duplicating infrastructure that already exists in the banking sector. The government has shareholding in a number of banks such as Agribank, CBZ Bank, POSB, ZB Bank and Infrastructure Development Bank of Zimbabwe (granted this bank is no longer into retail banking, but it is still in the business of development) where it can exert influence to ensure women empowerment objectives are met without breaking the bank. A new bank would require a board of directors, physical assets, management and staff, all of which will gobble up millions of dollars annually that would be better used for lending purposes. Additionally, in order for the proposed bank to effectively and equitably service women in all the country s 10 provinces, it needs scale. How is it going to achieve scale within a reasonable period of time, on an initial capital of $10 million?In the January 2016 monetary policy statement, RBZ governor John Mangudya encouraged banking institutions to consider establishing separate Women Entrepreneurs Dedicated Desks with necessary and suitable manpower; and provide advice and training on MSME financing. Additionally, the RBZ outlined measures to improve the level of financial inclusion among women, such as the establishment of a revolving women empowerment fund to be availed at affordable interest rates to support projects managed by women and strengthening women entrepreneurs human capital by developing appropriate entrepreneurial education and training opportunities by SMEDCO and banking institutions. RBZ also intends to raise awareness of financial products and financial services among women through consumer education and financial literacy programmes. In the January 2017 monetary policy statement, RBZ further directed that with effect from the quarter ending March 31 2017, all banking institutions and microfinance institutions would be required to incorporate in their quarterly submissions to the apex bank, gender-disaggregated data for all types of financial services and products. These initiatives, in my view, demonstrate serious commitment to the cause of women empowerment on the part of the RBZ. If all of this is done properly, why would we still need a bank run by or accountable to a government ministry? Instead of clamouring for capitalisation from Treasury, I think the Ministry of Women Affairs, Gender and Community Development should expend their energy on lobbying the RBZ to implement all these initiatives.Women Affairs, Gender and Development minister Nyasha Chikwinya takes every opportunity to talk about the Women s Bank. Whenever she makes a public appearance to officiate at an event, you can almost be sure she will talk about this bank, whose launch has been imminent for several years. No one is arguing against the empowerment and financial inclusion of women, but there is a need for her ministry to stop talking about this bank until they are really ready to launch it, otherwise all the missed targets may begin to make it look like just another hapless project characterised by the usual heat and not much light at the end.While Chikwinya is very enthusiastic about this project, Mugabe s recent comments on the Women s Bank are instructive about its prospects. You don t establish a bank by word of mouth. It must have funds. It must have depositors. And not just initial little amounts. So unless there is now the possibility of having the bank resourced financially and then you will be paying lip service to it. And I think this is what we have tended to be doing. It s still the talk on the lips of the women, he said during his interview with ZBCTV on the occasion of his 93rd birthday.In closing, I wish key stakeholders would stop making women empowerment appear to be just a case of opening a new bank and giving every woman with a heartbeat the opportunity to access credit. Rather, I think it is more about opening up opportunities for women with bankable business projects access to finance and other support services. It is also about upscaling the skills of women in order to improve the quality of products. The Ministry of Women s Affairs should be actively involved in creating this sustainable demand for financing, by availing appropriate training opportunities for women so that they can come up with good business propositions. In the meantime the question minister Chikwinya must answer is: Are women with bankable ideas currently failing to get funding simply because they are women? If the answer is yes, let the Women s Microfinance Bank come tomorrow! Below are some key milestones on the road to the first women s bank in Zimbabwe.March 1 2015: The ministry of Women s Affairs, Gender and Community Development issues an invitation to informal tender for the supply of consultancy services for the operationalisation of the Women s Microfinance Bank. May 8 2015: Acting minister of Women s Affairs, Gender and Community Development Sithembiso Nyoni says Government has set aside $5 million as seed money for the launch of the women s microfinance bank. September 2015: The Ministry of Women s Affairs, Gender and Community Development signs a memorandum of understanding with KPMG under which the audit firm will assist the ministry in setting up the women s bank.December 16 2015: Female legislators in the National Assembly urge Government to expedite the process of setting up the women s bank to provide the much-needed funding for their businesses and suggest that capitalisation of the bank should not be the burden of government alone, but also private sector players through Public Private Partnerships, given the country s resource constraints.November 23 2016: Addressing journalists and members of civil society in Harare ahead of the commencement of 16 days of activism against gender-based violence campaign, Women Affairs, Gender and Community Development minister Nyasha Chikwinya says her ministry is now awaiting the operating licence, expected in a fortnight. We will be issued with the licence for the bank in the next two weeks and the President has set aside $10m as start-up capital for the bank. We are now waiting for the paperwork so that investors can come on board, she says.December 8 2016: The 2017 National Budget proposes to allocate $10 million for capitalisation of the Women s Microfinance Bank.January 2017: RBZ deputy governor Charity Dhliwayo says that ownership of the Women s Microfinance Bank would be the responsibility of Government and that the Reserve Bank will only evaluate the application for a licence upon receipt of the same from the project promoters. Omen N. Muza edits the MFSB. You can view his LinkedIn profile at zw.linkedin.com/pub/omen-n-muza/30/641/3b8 or initiate contact on omen.muza@gmail.com.