Midlands Hotel, GweruDancehall musician Winky D will descend in the Midlands province for a series of shows this weekend, as he celebrates his recent National Arts Merit Awards double-win after bagging two awards. The energetic stage performer will serenade his fans at the Midlands Hotel in Gweru tonight before heading for Zvishavane tomorrow for another gig at Caravan Park. Organisers, 2 Kings Entertainment said they had set up tents for the gigs in case of rain. Club 4-4-2, EastleaLocal roots reggae outfit, Transit Crew, will officially open CLUB 4-4-2 dubbed The House of Reggae a new nightspot situated at Clyde Shopping Centre in Eastlea. Transit Crew will perform tomorrow night from 7pm together with other reggae bands. Entrance will be free for female reggae fans before 9pm and patrons will also be treated to the first beer or soft drink free of charge. Organisers have promised massive non-stop reggae vibes till dawn.Eland Bar, Kuwadzana 6Popularly known as the Young Igwe, Peter Moyo will be performing at The Eland Bar in Kuwadzana 6 on Saturday following the bar s renovations. Young Igwe is set to rub shoulders on stage with upcoming musician Mollen Senator Tichareva.The musician, who has managed to keep his late father Tongai Moyo s legacy alive, said fans should expect some samples from his forthcoming long-awaited album. Legends Sports Bar, MaronderaAll roads lead to Legends Sports Diner in Marondera tomorrow as Faheem Somanje and his group Pengaudzoke launch their debut album since the death of his father, Daiton.The launch will be graced by sungura ace, Alick Macheso, while mbira queen, Hope Masike, will spice up the event.Josphat Somanje, who is an uncle to Faheem, will also perform at the launch, while Macheso who featured on one of the tracks from the album will join Faheem on stage to perform the collaboration. Resident wheel spinner, DJ Ninja, will be on the decks.Colour Purple, SouthertonGospel diva Mercy Jani, affectionately known as Amai Guvamombe in music circles, will tomorrow launch an album at Colour Purple Club in Southerton, Harare, during an event meant to celebrate her 42nd birthday. The seven-track album titled The Very Best of Amai Guvamombe contains hit songs from her past seven albums including the track Garaiwo Muchinamata, an apostolic choral piece that catapulted her to fame.The Chitungwiza-based songstress confirmed her birthday bash and said that instead of receiving gifts from her fans, she will first launch an album that contains a selection of hits from her previous albums. A number of apostolic choral outfits, among them Vadzidzi Vekutanga, and others are expected to perform at the bash. Harare GardensUpcoming gospel artistes and choral groups will battle for supremacy at the inaugural Vessel Gospel Music Competition finals at the Harare Gardens tomorrow. The winner will walk away with $2 000 cash and ink a deal to record a single with Monolio Studios. The 12 finalists were selected from the 27 drawn from 24 different churches after auditions that started last year.The finalists include Belinda Juaki, Leona Muchetu, Edmond Mavondo, Eli Mambo, Simba Mashumba, Merciline Bishi, Blessed Twins, Remnants, Vocapella, and Ultimate Worship. The competition was founded by Scarlet Business Communications with the support of Monolio Studios.Club Mandisa, MutareTrendy dancers New Stars perform on the Ladies Nite back-to-back with Mandisa Kings and Queens at Club Mandisa in Mutare tonight.Raunchy dancer Beverly Sibanda, affectionately known as Bev, and her Sexy Angels group will tomorrow night perform at a potentially explosive show at Club Mandisa.Bev is expected to roll out her new single track and dances. The Sunday Nite clash at the same joint will see Mandisa Kings &#038; Queens (Mutare) fight for honours against Harare s New Stars Dance Group.Pub Lagondola, BulawayoDJs Deckstar, Phibz and Wycliff will spiral house music lovers to heights of ecstasy with deep house music at Pub Lagondola in Bulawayo from tonight until Sunday.Cape to Cairo, BulawayoCape to Cairo Bar along Robert Mugabe Way in Bulawayo will host Ramsey K and band tonight. Hartsfield TshisanyamaThe open-air venue will this Saturday host 3D Event s member, Eddie, and Judgment Yard s DJ Flavour s birthday bash with performances from Calvin, Asaph and others. The Odyssey, KadomaThe gold mining town of Kadoma will tomorrow host hip-hop sensation Tehn Diamond, who is embarking on his nationwide tour alongside Ammara Brown, Simba Tagz, Taiwanda Thai and Take Fizzo.Bulawayo Music AcademyGlobe-trotting ensembles Nobuntu and Black Umfolosi will serenade revellers with acapella harmonies on Saturday at the Bulawayo Music Academy.