RESERVE Bank of Zimbabwe-owned lending group Homelink has provided a $15 million loan facility for Zimbabweans in the informal sector and in particular members of the Killer Zivhu-led Cross-Border Traders Association (ZCBTA). BY STAFF REPORTERKiller ZivhuZivhu, flanked by Homelink chief executive officer Stellamaris Chorwira, managing director Desmond Ali and other senior officials, said the facility would assist in stemming the tide of externalisation of scarce hard currencies in the economy. We applied for a $15 million loan facility which has been granted but with conditions to support only cross-border traders. The facility will also require people to bank all their money and pay back whatever they would have borrowed in hard currency and not bond notes. We will also through this facility mop up small denominations that are not accepted in neighbouring countries where our traders take their products or buy goods from, Zivhu said.Chorwira said the institution was ready to roll out the programme. We are here to support the informal sector and to enhance financial inclusion. We have 26 branches nationwide and will open facilities at all posts of entry for use by members of the association under this programme. We will target registered traders under ZCBTA, he said.Ali said while Homelink was not yet ready to divulge details of the interest rates involved, they would be concessionary. They will be very concessionary rates. We will reveal this on Thursday along with the banking partner we are currently talking to. They will be affordable rates to promote exports and employment creation in general, he said.Zivhu said his association was targeting the region and beyond for trade. We will later this week unveil a financial partner in the form of a bank. Traders will only need a letter from the ZCBTA in order to access as much foreign currency as they would want when they are ready to travel outside for business. We are hoping that this facility will help with increasing official banking by those in the informal sector, and exports to countries like Angola, South Sudan, South Africa and Namibia. We are also looking at exporting artefacts to countries in Europe, Zivhu said. Cross-border traders face challenges in dealing with small denominations from $20 downwards and we will have a facility in which they can exchange this in the formal banking system and get bigger denominations rather than go on the black market and get cheated. Zivhu added that Homelink and ZCBTA had also agreed on a facility to bring in products from clothing to groceries for those that do not want to travel outside under a scheme dubbed Fill My Stall, Store or Market. We are aware that they (cross-border traders) do not have creditworthiness as demanded by financial institutions so we want to make it easy for our people, hence this facility, he said.