ZIMBABWEANS living in South Africa, who hold the special dispensation permit must stay calm and wait for the government to make an official announcement at the end of the year, a lobby group has urged. BY KHANYILE MLOTSHWALocals exiled in neighbouring South Africa remain agitated with no official position in sight, given that the special permit issued to over 250 000 Zimbabweans, who fled social upheaval in the country will expire at the end of this year.Zimbabwe Community in South Africa (ZCSA) chairperson, Ngqabutho Mabhena, said holders of the permit should guard against falling prey to con-artists. If you are a special permit holder, please wait for official announcement by the Home Affairs minister (Malusi Gigaba). Please ignore statements circulating on social media about the special permits, Mabhena said.The lobby group s spokesperson, Bongani Mkhwananzi, said ZCSA has received inquiries on the supposed announcement by the Department of Home Affairs on the special permit possible renewal . The ZCSA is confident that after the minister and his peers in government and political circles have applied their minds with considered the requests and input we also have presented, an official announcement will be made, he said. We cannot promise a favourable announcement, but are confident the minister understands the plight of the permit holders and will give a reasonable response and way forward. We would like to encourage those that qualify to migrate to other permits to do so. Gigaba early this year said he would not be rushed into a decision and only last week met his Zimbabwean counterpart, Ignatius Chombo, over regional migration issues.Mkhwananzi added: We were assured this (retention of passports) won t happen. We are yet to receive reports of such retention of the passport by the embassy and advise people to bring such incidences to our attention so we can make our case with the department. Social media has been awash with claims that holders of the special permit would be eligible for permanent residence at the end of the year. There are also messages asking holders to deposit money into given bank accounts for applications to be processed. Mkhwananzi said these are phony messages and should be ignored.