ZIFA yesterday banned Harare City Football Club official Hope Chizuzu from all football roles and activities on allegations of extortion, fraud, misrepresentation, as well as attacking the association president Philip Chiyangwa. BY SPORTS REPORTERIn a letter written by acting chief executive officer Joseph Mamutse, Zifa relieved Chizuzu, who is the Harare City club media communications manager, of all association football involvement.The letter, which was erroneously dated March 8, 2016, instead of 2017, and copied to Fifa, Caf and his bosses at Harare City, alleges Chizuzu contravened Article 34 of the Zifa constitution by misrepresenting himself as a Zifa/Fifa official.It reads: Reference is made to the decision of the Zifa executive committee where it has been resolved that in terms of Section 34 of the Zifa constitution, you are forthwith provisionally dismissed from all association football roles and activities administered under Fifa and Zifa statutes with immediate effect subject to the confirmation of your expulsion by the Zifa congress in terms of Article 36 (1) of the Zifa constitution. The reasons for your provisional dismissal are as follows: You have consistently fraudulently misrepresented to be a Fifa adviser/representative without having been appointed to any such role in any manner whatsoever. You have extensively abused your misrepresentations to peddle falsehoods, malicious allegations, engender disharmony and extort football officials by claiming you have some influence, which you clearly do not have. You are strictly required to produce any proof any such appointment. You have falsely and maliciously fabricated and extensively published baseless allegations that the Zifa and Cosafa president [Chiyangwa] has been indicted for a disciplinary hearing case by Caf in Egypt. You were fully knowledgeable that no such case existed. You have a long history of perpetuating acts of deceit, fraud, manipulative conduct, match-fixing, and malicious pursuits in association football in Zimbabwe. You have brought association football into serious disrepute and have attempted to wrongly eke a living out of football even though you have no skill, qualification and expertise of value to football. Zifa said Chizuzu had provisionally ceased to be a member of association football and must stop forthwith to associate himself with Fifa and Zifa in any manner whatsoever. Be advised that any misrepresentation of a purported association with football will obviously attract necessary criminal sanctions. Chizuzu could not be reached for comment yesterday.