WITH most rural schools grappling to come to terms with the new curriculum that has great emphasis on information and communication technology (ICT), a group of young men in Ruwa has begun recycling old computers so they can donate them to rural schools. BY JAIROS SAUNYAMABlessing Chisadza (left) hands over recycled computers to Zanu PF Mashonaland Central provincial chairperson Dick Mafios at Mutondwe Secondary School recentlyThe concept, known as e-waste recycling, has benefited over 14 rural schools since January with the intention of donating more computers to 50 schools by the end of this month.The team, comprising of IT experts and engineers, has been collecting unused and rejected computers and accessories in offices and industrial sites for recycling. The computers are then donated to primary and secondary schools in different provinces.Blessing Chisadza, director of Computer Education For All Foundation (CEFAF), an organisation that has embarked on e-waste recycling, said the idea came up after he realised that the current economic situation hinders the purchase of new IT machines, hence the need to recycle old machines. As far as ICTs are concerned, for 2017 alone we had plans to set-up 20 computer labs and the budget was almost 40k for computers alone and in contrast with our economy automatically this became a barrier for our project. We sat and came up with the idea of e-waste collection and recycling, he said.He said the e-waste recycling concept was also born after realising that there were a lot of computers lying idle in offices while there children in the rural areas in dire need of the gadgets given the recently introduced new curriculum. We discovered that we have hundreds thousands of computers that are lying idle in our schools, warehouses, storerooms, garages and offices and most of these machines are much usable for academic purposes. Only then we realised that we can achieve much more if we are to successfully mainstream the e-waste recycling programme, he said. Our main aim is to mainstream grassroots ICTs in order to promote innovation and full implementation of STEM by creating a platform that promotes computer education for all, Chisadza said.Twelve-year-old Munashe Mushoriwa of Mangoro Primary School in Chikomba East recently told legislator Edgar Mbwembwe that pupils wanted ICT facilities at the schoolMbwembwe was the guest of honour at an event meant to officially launch a borehole at the school. The school will be a beneficiary of the programme together with other learning institutions in the area such as Bimha, Maware, Mungurawu, Mutoredzanwa, Damba, Mudavarima and Nzuma.Mbembwe confirmed the computer donations and hailed the programme.The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education introduced the new curriculum leaving education experts blaming it for not taking any contingent measures to close the ICT gulf between urban and rural schools or even training of teachers so that they are not deskilled by the new curriculum. Implementation of the new curriculum began in January this year, with most teachers especially resource strained schools facing difficulties.Primary and Secondary Education minister Lazarus Dokora recently said ICT tools prices have come down hence the inclusion of the curriculum. One of the recommendations was to get schools to have second hand computers. Second-hand computers might no longer be viable solutions. The ICT tools themselves have come down in prices so the tools are available. Tablets, laptops and the president distributed desktops so eventually as part of the reforms, we said let s get the inclusion of ICT tools, said Dokora.Speaking during a handover ceremony of some computers at Mutondwe Secondary School in Mt Darwin South, the head girl, Nelia Mushunje, said ICTs are a reality in the modern world and there is need to empower rural schools with facilities. The world is changing and globalisation is a reality. We have no option but to embrace this phenomenon. We can only do this if we have the facilities and we thank all those who are supporting this noble cause by ensuring that schools get equipped with the necessary machines, she said.Schools such as Mutondwe Primary, Nyajenje Secondary and Mt Darwin High also benefited from the programme. Mashonaland Central provincial chairperson Dick Mafios, who received the computers on behalf of Mt Darwin South MP Saviour Kasukuwere, said former students should donate computers to their old learning institutions. We are very grateful by the donation by CEFAF in this area. I urge former students who have now become doctors or lawyers to look back and donate computers. It doesn t matter that during your time there were no ICT subjects, but because of the modern curriculum, if you find a computer just take it to the schools, he said.