The announcement by Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa that the country is edging closer to aligning all marriage laws with the Constitution in line with the Sadc protocol on eradicating child marriages is a welcome move. Comment: NewsDay EditorClearly, Mnangagwa s statement could not have come at the opportune time given that globally, International Women s Day is being celebrated this month. Therefore, this year s celebrations are unique for Zimbabwe in that it is a year the world has set Agenda 2030 by which women should achieve the 50-50 ratio at the workplace.It is unfortunate, however, this is happening at a time other countries, including Zimbabwe, continue to treat women as second-class citizens. Many women and girls, particularly in the countryside are spending much of their time on household responsibilities in fact, more than double the time spent by men and boys.So the changes needed for women in the workplace have to start at home and in the earliest days of school, so that there are no places in a child s environment where they learn that girls must be less, have less, and dream smaller than boys.This means adjustment in society, parenting, curricula, educational settings, and various communication channels. It will take determined steps to protect young girls from harmful cultural practices like early marriage, and from all forms of violence.We are aware that Zimbabwe is a signatory to multitudes of international treaties, but the delays in harmonising laws affecting women are intriguing. Hence, a bold step is needed to speed up the harmonisation process. That way the country will also pave way to domesticating the Sadc model law in order to craft legislation that protect not only the girl child, but all children.We also applaud the Senate for bringing up the debate and holding the Executive accountable in such people matters rather than focusing on politics of power yet so much is still required to protect the citizenry.Is it surprising that, according to the UN Women, only 18% of undergraduate computer science degrees are held by women? We have no doubt that protecting children from early child marriages should see a significant shift in girls in the country taking STEM subjects, if women are to compete successfully for high-paying new collar jobs. In recent years, we have also witnessed a sizeable number of politicians in acrimonious divorces with their long-time wives to marry young women. So it is anybody s guess that if, for instance, the proposed Bill is made into law, it will be able to amend the Marriages Act and Customary Marriages Act and all outdated laws relating to marriage.Besides, we support the Bill as it would remove contradictions in statutes where the age of sexual consent is 16 years and yet the age allowable by law for one to get married is 18 years. We urge all legislators to support the Bill for the good of the country and protection of its citizenry.Sad stories about under-age girls involved in child prostitution and early child marriages are too ghastly to mention. It is, therefore, our hope that the Bill will be inspired by the need to protect the girl child and aspire to achieve the 50-50 call for women in the changing world of work!