FORMER Ngezi Platinum forward James Ngulube is aiming to play for a Zimbabwean club again before he officially join his new South African top-flight football league side Maritzburg United. BY HENRY MHARAThe 20-year-old signed a two-year contract with the South African Premiership side in February after he impressed during a lengthy trial stint, but will only start official duties on July 1.The striker is back in the country with the Team of Choice happy to loan him to any local club of his choice.Ngulube would prefer to join either his former club or Caps United who would give him a chance to play in Confederation of African Football (Caf) competitions. Ngezi are participating in the Caf Confederations Cup, whereas Caps United are playing in the Caf Champions League. I signed a two-year contract with an option to renew. I have been training with the team, but I will officially start on July 1, Ngulube told NewsDaySport yesterday. Before I go I want to be playing competitive football and I would like to rejoin Ngezi for the months I will be here. It will be a way to say thank you because of what they did for me. Caps United could be another good option so that I can play in the Caf competitions. Those two are my preferences, but I m open to any team because what I need is some game time and to show what I can do, Ngulube said.He was one of the shining stars in Ngezi s dream league debut where they won the country s biggest cup competition, the Chibuku Super Cup, which earned them a ticket to represent the country in the Confederations Cup.Ngulube finished as the team s top goalscorer with six goals in the league.At Maritzburg United, he will join fellow countrymen Blessing Moyo and Evans Rusike. He said the duo have been helping him to settle down at the club. They are both my friends and have been very supportive, but I have become so close with Blessing. We spent most of the time together and even go to church together. It s the same with the coach (Roger de Sa), he has been very supportive and trusts me. That is very important, it s good for my self-confidence. I don t see much difference in terms of football with theirs and I feel I can do well, Ngulube said.