A FIGHT over congregants has turned nasty in Mutare with self-proclaimed prophets throwing mud at rivals in order to attract more followers. BY KENNETH NYANGANIProphet Madzibaba Skynage Marwakuona (far right) with his aidesMutare-based prophet, Madzibaba Skynage Marwakuona, who has taken the sprawling high-density suburb of Sakubva by storm with his healing powers, ridiculed fellow prophets who were printing posters to denounce him as fake.Mutare s oldest suburb, Sakubva has been awash with posters urging people not to attend his church services.Marwakuona, who claims to heal ailments of all kinds, has become one of the most sought-after prophets, as word of his spiritual healing has suddenly become the talk of the eastern border city.He told NewsDay Weekender yesterday that fellow prophets in the neighbourhood were becoming jealous of his spiritual God given gifts. One poster seen by this publication labels Marwakuona as a mere Tsikamutanda bent on hoodwinking desperate salvation seekers.The posters further demand Marwakuona to reveal his source of power. I am not even surprised with these posters trying to discourage my congregants not to come to my church services. I know its fellow prophets who are now jealous of the good work I am doing. Yes I know them but it s not a war, we are all doing God s work, Marwakuona said. I am not a Tsikamutanda as some are claiming. I do not ask for money or force anyone to come to my church services. I was ordained to heal people in the name of Jesus and exorcise evil spirits that make families and marriages break up. Misheck Ngoma (36) a congregant at Marwakuona s Johanne Masowe Chishanu Nguwochena claimed he vomited human flesh at the church s last service. Last week I was not feeling well and had no appetite and severe headache. I was given prescription for malaria and nothing improved, he said. My wife advised me that we should visit the prophet and when he prayed for me I vomited human flesh, the prophet said I was saved with human flesh at a party sometime in August last year. Last year Marwakuona was at the centre stage when he reportedly exorcised a Chikanga teenage witch, who reportedly hissed and slithered like a snake after she was allegedly initiated by her Chipinge-based granny, who owned six hyenas, five snakes, one wild cat and five owls.He has also reportedly exorcised several suspected witches who usually attend his praying sessions.