Constant employee training is one crucial aspect that any serious or successful organisation should embrace. SUCCESS LIFE: JONAH NYONISkills gaps are closed through seminarsSecondly, it must be incumbent upon the employee also to make a conscious effort to make themselves better by seeking other training or development opportunities. This article is based on the discussion I had with my fellow trainers during the week and concerns what we observed could be lacking in the Zimbabwean industry. There is a need to re-sharpen how we have been doing business and re-train or re-tool leadership in many organisations.I read an important paper by the World Economic Forum (WEF) with projections, problems and proposals that come or are coming with the Forth Industrial Revolution. These are caused by obvious reasons to those that are ready for change, but some organisations do not take as obvious as they are seen resting on their laurels or drowning helpless at the close of technology. As change comes, three basic things happen. Firstly, there are those that reap great rewards. Secondly, there are those that are caught off-guard. Lastly, there are those who are used by change. This change, according the WEF, comes because of three major reasons:Technology and globalisationTechnology is taking over the way we do business. Some jobs have been taken away. On the other hand, those that are equipped or have the acumen to deal with current swift changes, have found themselves leading. According to the WEF: Technology and globalisation are significantly shifting business models in all sectors, increasing the pace of change in job destruction and job creation including new forms of work as well as skills churn within existing jobs. While some estimates have put the risk of automation as high as half of current jobs, other research forecasts indicate a risk at a considerably lower value of 9% of today s occupations Education and training systemsThese have remained largely irrelevant and archaic. Local graduates may be or might have been rated as great, but the author would beg to differ. Our education at times does not suit special and current needs. I would love to propose that, at university as an example we should not be taught what s on offer, but we should make a demand of what it should offer as per needs of the industry. Learning old things widens the skills gap. Secondly, developed countries, as long as they don t want to restructure their education system, will have a hard time coping or adjusting to the global trends.For example, when I did a journalism degree some years back is was great because that was my passion.Unfortunately, the same degree still is being offered locally without changes. But if you analyse with other countries, there has been an inclusion of data journalism to adjust to what has been termed the Big Data .Cultural normsCorporate culture could be an impediment to development. Outdated cultural norms stand in the way of development.The worst thing I do not want to hear, particularly when I am training companies, is the issue of upholding cultures that are, in fact, the roadblock to success. Most companies are suffering at the mercy of old policies and leadership that still holds on to old means or patterns of doing business.As a certified business and leadership trainer under the International Business Driving Licence (IBDL), there are nine or more means to cover the skills gape in any institute. These fall under training and development. Firstly, the employee should be well versed on how to use equipment for the job they were employed for.In the book Understanding Business by the IBDL (pg 2011: 118) it states that: Training and development include all attempts to improve productivity by increasing an employee s ability to perfume. Training focuses on short-term skills, whereas development includes long-term abilities. Training and development include three steps: (1) assessing the needs of the organisation and the skills of the employees: (2) designing training activities to meet the identified needs; and (3) evaluating the effectiveness of the training . Below are some of the ways that will help any company stay competitive:Employee orientationsThis is the first level of training, to acquaint the employee with the practices, policies and goals of a company. This is not only departmental visits and introductions, but this is the induction into a company.Seminars/ workshopsSkills gaps are closed through seminars. This year, my aim as a trainer is to host at least one seminar per month, besides special engagements. Seminars bring the things that collage or training might have missed especial on the issues to do with emotional intelligence, technological interactions and social entrepreneurship.ShadowingJob shadowing involves working with another employee who might have a different job. This helps employees exchange valuable ideas. Job shadowing is important for new job training, career development and leadership development On-job trainingMost of my skills have been acquired through on-job training. This is when I was allowed to watch those that are skilled to the job and I also begin doing the similar tasks. Companies usually assume that when someone is from university they know everything, but that is not always the case. When the immediate supervisor is hard you might even quit at this level, but it needs someone who will take you by hand and teach you to the ropes.Off-job trainingThis level also has the traits of seminars. Training does not happen at work, but an internal or external expert is invited to train you on a needed skill, especially soft skills.On-line trainingThis is one of the easiest means of learning these days. This is when one uses internet through text, audio and video to learn a special skill. Some of these on-line training are free. For example the Young African Leaders Initiative (YALI) Network offers success courses as servant leadership, public speaking and personal development.In addition, one can use live virtual classes to be trained. This is the use on-line meetings and teleconferencing.InternshipAttachment to a company is another crucial way of getting a skill,particularly for university students. Most people would think that internship is only limited to people that are currently at university. I have had firsthand experience on this; I had internship with two major companies, one locally and another one in South Africa. My intention was simple, I applied for a place to add value and learn new skills and gain knowledge. This has given me tremendous edge over many people including those that I was with at university.Vestibule trainingThis is training done in a classroom setup and the equipment used to train are those similar to those you will have at a job environment. This is done as to familiarise an individual to the equipment, methodologies and safety measures that they will encounter in their real work.Apprentice programmesApprenticeship is when an individual learns alongside an experienced employee to master the skills of a craft. Leadership/ management training.Leaders and managers need extra and special training. Leaders are the engine of any institute and if the engine is not well oiled the entire company might come to a halt. This training also involves training employees to become leaders or managers.Jonah Nyoni is an author, success coach and certified leadership/business trainer. He is the author of Inspiration for Success and Success Within Reach. He can be contacted on &#8211; Tel: 0772 581 918. Email:jonah@classicmail.co.za. Twitter@jonahnyoni.