FORMER Zimbabwe senior soccer team coach Kalisto Pasuwa s dream of coaching the Malawi senior men s national team has reached a dead end, with the Football Association of Malawi (FAM) withdrawing the Flames from both the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifiers, as well as the African Nations Champions (Chan) qualifiers for next year s finals. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAA number of coaches had been linked with the job, with former Warriors goalkeeper Bruce Grobbelaar among those reported to have been in the frame to land the biggest coaching job in Malawian football.Former Warriors coach Ian Gorowa, former Zambia coach Honour Janza and Paolo Duarte had also been bandied about although Pasuwa appeared to be the leading candidate.FAM had even contacted Pasuwa through his manager Gibson Mahachi as the football federation prepared to offer him a contract ahead of the upcoming Chan and Afcon qualifiers.The former Dynamos coach won a lot of admirers in Malawi after edging the Flames 2-1 in an Afcon qualifier last year before a 3-0 victory in the reverse fixture in Harare in June handed his Warriors the ticket to the finals in Gabon.On Sunday FAM announced in a statement that they had suspended the recruitment of an expatriate coach owing to lack of funding. The football federation said their proposal and justification to recruit an expatriate coach sent to the government was turned down on the grounds of cashflow problems. The Football Association of Malawi (FAM) would like to inform the general public and all its stakeholders that at its executive committee meeting held in Lilongwe on 11th March 2017, the association, among other things, considered the recruitment of the Malawi national senior football team coach, and funding for the Malawi national football team engagements.As you may all recall, FAM, having earlier examined and identified the dire extent of the current gaps and shortfalls in the team, resolved that an experienced and well qualified expatriate coach be engaged.Accordingly, a comprehensive proposal and justification was sent to the government as the financiers. It was expected that the expatriate coach was going to drill our current crop of players to international levels for better performance of the team. It was also expected that the expatriate coach was going to provide mentorship to our local coaches with a view of them taking over the team at the expiry of his contract. As we are all aware, the proposal has been declined on account of the current adverse economic situation that the country is facing. The meeting also discussed a number of engagements that had been planned for the team notably the Chan and Africa Cup of Nations competitions. During several rounds of consultations and discussions it was very clear that due the current economic problems, the government will not be able to provide funding for the team for its participation in the above two tournaments, reads part of the statement.Contacted for comment, Mahachi said Pasuwa was not in a hurry to get employment. We are aware of the position which Malawi has taken. We are not in a hurry. Pasuwa is taking a break at the moment, Mahachi said.Pasuwa led the Warriors to their third Afcon finals in Gabon in January, but failure to go beyond the group stages did not please his employers Zifa who decided against renewing his contract.