BULAWAYO Provincial Affairs minister Eunice Sandi-Moyo says she is not moved by the countrywide demonstrations against her by Zanu PF women s league members. By Luyanduhlobo Makwati/Sharon SibindiEunice Sandi-MoyoHundreds of protesters on Wednesday called for the ouster of Sandi-Moyo, who is the women s league deputy secretary, and Hurungwe East MP Sarah Mahoka, accusing the two of undermining First Lady Grace Mugabe.Mahoka was also accused of disrespecting Grace and Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa.Sandi-Moyo, who was briefing journalists about her tour to Malaysia where she travelled with 30 delegates from Bulawayo to scout for business partnerships, had earlier refused to comment on the demonstrations.But the Bulawayo Provincial Affairs minister made an about-turn and told journalists it was impossible for her to plot to oust the First Lady.Sandi-Moyo said there were people using the name of the First Lady to fight her and create a rift between her and the First Family. Even the First Lady never said to me she is interested in any position. I am the one who was going around with her, so why would I contest her? My duty is to work for Bulawayo and we revive the industry. I believe in Bulawayo business and help its people to get publicity that would promote it, Sandi-Moyo said. I wish those who are saying that good luck. I am not moved and I don t feel anything about what they are saying because it s not my problem. The job that I was hired for is to develop Bulawayo, create jobs for its people and their children, the project is not mine. Even the uniformity of it tells you that there is someone who is behind this. She said at 70 years of age, she no longer had the energy to fight for positions. I am content where I am. I am focusing on building Bulawayo within the dictates of ZimAsset. Furthermore, with or without position, I will still remain a loyal party member even if they remove me, Sandi-Moyo said. If they have the power to remove me it is okay, but I will remain a strong member of Zanu PF. It is not about positions, but it s about loyalty to the party. After the demonstrations failed to attract the expected numbers in some provinces, the organisers were allegedly gunning for Zanu PF commissar and Local Government minister Saviour Kasukuwere, accusing him of sabotaging the protests.Asked for comment, Kasukuwere said: You can ask the organiser of the event if there was anyone who told me. How can I sabotage something that I did not know of? Harare provincial commissar Shadreck Mashayamombe also said he was not aware of the programme.But secretary for youth affairs Kudzai Chipanga said he received an official communication from women s league, secretary for administration Letina Undenge and did all he could do to support the programme although he was advised at short notice. We support the President and the First Lady. We did all we could do to relay the message to our structures asking them to support. That is why you saw some youth leaders sitting on top tables in solidarity with the women s league cause, Chipanga said. Mahoka was not reachable.