DEFENCE minister Sydney Sekeramayi has said the Air Force of Zimbabwe is on standby to evacuate marooned flood victims to safety as flash floods continue damaging infrastructure and cutting off villages, leaving many stranded. By NQOBANI NDLOVUTsholotsho flood victims in a tent at Sipepa ClinicSekeramayi told Senators on Thursday the Air Force had dedicated services to rescue flood victims across the country, adding fuel storage facilities for helicopters to airlift marooned people had also been set aside.Last month, hundreds of marooned villagers in Tsholotsho were airlifted to safety after their homes were destroyed by an overflowing Gwayi River. The Air Force of Zimbabwe has dedicated its services to rescue such people and has also even ferrying medicinal assistance to areas which are marooned and where people should have access to medication. The Air Force of Zimbabwe is on standby to supply the services of rescuing people who could be marooned wherever they are, Sekeramayi told Senators.He was responding to a question by Chief Musarurwa on the ministry s preparedness to rescue flood victims. Musarurwa wanted to find out what measures have been put in place by the Defence ministry for the rescue missions. We should be on high alert because of this cyclone-induced rainfall. Therefore, the Air Force and the Zimbabwe National Army are ready. We also put aside some storage facility for fuel to fuel the planes which are supposed to rescue people who could be marooned because of the incessant rains. The ministry has been moving around holding meetings with Ministries which may come in and assist such as Defence, Health and Child Care and Transport and Infrastructure Development. These ministries work on the welfare of the citizens of Zimbabwe, Sekeramayi said.The floods that have claimed over 200 lives have been declared a national disaster by the government to pave way for international assistance. In Tsholotsho, flood victims are sheltered in tents mounted at Sipepa Clinic.Meanwhile, Sekeramayi also told Senators that the country s eastern borders were very safe despite the threats of Renamo rebels destabilising Mozambique.Sekeramayi was responding to a question by Matabeleland South Senator Bheki Sibanda who had asked him to explain the situation at the eastern borders. Along the borders with Mozambique there are cases of rebels fighting with the Mozambican government, and not against Zimbabwe, Sekeramayi said. As you know that whenever there is conflict there is a lot of movement by people running away from being assaulted and seeking refuge, and what we have along the Eastern borders are people leaving Mozambique and coming to seek safety and refuge in Zimbabwe. He said if there was a serious threat Zimbabwe will send its police and military to maintain peace.