AFRO-Jazz songbird Edith WeUtonga and France-based mbira player and songstress Queen Mashie will tonight headline the Women of Note Concert scheduled for Alliance Francaise in Harare as part of the International Women s Day commemorations running under the theme #BeBoldForChange. BY PRECIOUS CHIDAQueen MashieWeUtonga said the concert, which has a mother and sisters touch, will afford women from all walks of life an opportunity to celebrate their achievements, while celebrating Queen Mashie as a woman of note. It s an opportunity for us to identify women of note and bring to the fore their identities and achievements, she said. In our inaugural concert, we celebrated women such as Lynn Mukonoweshuro, a banking executive, and Patricia Murambinda, among others like Maria Wilson, the executive director of Hifa [Harare International Festival of the Arts]. They were all in attendance. This year on March 8, we have Queen Mashie for our International Women s Day. Queen Mashie, whose music is a fine blend of Afro-jazz, mbira, folk and Swahili traditional music, has performed at several festivals, including Sauti za Busara (Zanzibar), Women in Jazz (Zimbabwe), and Afro Sinodo (Manchester, United Kingdom) and Hifa.She is also reputed for supporting other women to progress in their music careers and fulfil their dreams.Among the beneficiaries of her support have been her nieces, Ammara and Chengeto Brown.In 2013, Queen Mashie founded the October Women Festival as a platform to encourage and celebrate other women in their achievements. Edith WeUtonga will collaborate with Queen Mashie for a performance at the concert.Queen Mashie said she was anticipating rubbing shoulders with WeUtonga on stage, something she described as a dream come true. To add another note on women of note, Edith is one of the female artists I have been longing to share stage with since we believe in one thing, she said. Queen Mashie has played mbira for 16 years and she has become an mbira teacher in her own right. The International Women s Day is annually held on March 8 to celebrate women s achievements throughout history and across nations.