THE row over the selection of the next king of the Ndebele Kingdom continues unabated with Chief Mathema and a member of the Khumalo clan Nhlanhla Khumalo adding their voices to the raging debate. BY SILAS NKALAKing LobengulaThe Khumalos have set in motion a process to revive the Ndebele Kingdom amid reports that at least 30 people scattered in Zimbabwe, South Africa and Botswana reportedly claimed to be legitimate heirs to the throne.Among those who claim to be the right candidates were Mcijwana Khumalo and one Stanley Tshuma. Mcijwana reportedly claimed to have been ordained King Mzilikazi II on July 4 2010, indicating that all other claimants were just causing confusion.Tshuma also claims the same title, arguing he is possessed with King Mzilikazi s spirit and he is a descendent of Hlangabeza one of Mzilikazi s sons. However, it has been argued that Hlangabeza died at the age of 12 before he had sired any child.Yesterday a member of the Khumalo clan and the leader of Mthwakazi kaMzilikazi Cultural Association, Nhlanhla Khumalo, said the whole saga around people claiming to be the rightful heirs to the throne were misplaced and confusing the people. It is not the responsibility of individuals to claim to be kings or declare who the king must be, but members of the clan are the ones who sit and agree on who should be king before advising the chiefs on the agreed person, Khumalo said. As we speak we are looking at the Lobengula lineage, where this should be programmed according to the descendants from Lobengula s children. The Khumalos are still looking at this, and when they are through with the process they will advise the chiefs who will then announce the final decision. Khumalo said the people in the region must not be moved and confused by those who declare themselves as kings, as long as that is not announced by the chiefs.Chief Mathema weighed in: The Khumalos sometime told us that they had identified the king in one of Lobengula houses. By right the next king must come from the house of Lobengula, Mathema said. A historian, Winston Dube, also concurred with the assertion that the rightful heir to the throne must come from Lobengula house.Lobengula had eight sons Mankisimana, Nyamande, Mhlambi, Sintinga, Njube, Mphezeni, Nguboyenja and Sidojiwe.However, Mankisimana, Mphezeni and Nguboyenja did not have children.