The Premier Soccer League and Delta Beverages, sponsors of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League and the Chibuku Super Cup, have partnered in introducing a new cup competition Castle Lager Challenge Cup which will be contested by the clubs that win the two competitions bankrolled by the brewery company. BY HENRY MHARAAt stake will be a cool $30 000 for the winners, while runners up will take home $20 000.This was revealed by the company s marketing executive Maxen Karombo during the launch of their premiership sponsorship in Harare yesterday, where they committed themselves to a new partnership worth over $5 million over a three-year period. It gives me great pleasure to announce the renewal of our partnership with Castle Lager Premier Soccer League for the next three years worth $3 450 000. We renew the league sponsorship to the tune of $700 000 per season and the Chibuku Super Cup worth $400 000 per season, Karombo said. To commemorate the 25th anniversary of the league, Delta Beverages will introduce the brand new Castle Lager Challenge Cup. The Cup will be a one match challenge between the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League champions and the winner of the Chibuku Super Cup. Where both the league and Chibuku Super Cup are won by the same team, the team that comes second in the league will play the champions. This money represents the direct cash injection into the coffers of the league and clubs. Over and above, this money Delta Beverages will invest a further $2 million in support of the league through advertising and promotion of the league by deploying various activities that benefit the fans, consumers and traders of Castle Lager and Chibuku Super. Therefore, the total investment Delta Beverages will commit to football in the next three years is worth $5 450 000. This is the biggest commitment to sport that any company in the country has ever done. No changes were made to the prize moneys for both the league and the Chibuku Super Cup competitions, with the winners getting $100 000 and $75 000 respectively. All of us at Delta Beverages are committed to doing well by doing good in the communities in which we operate. We are proud to have been key contributors to the development of not only football, but also golf, tennis, rugby and fishing. Our signature on the sponsorship agreement will be an agreement to grow the Castle Lager, Chibuku Super and Premier Soccer League brands. The sponsorship we sign today aims to provide a structured and professional league administration, guarantee prize money to clubs at the end of the season as a reward for attaining their respective positions on the log, offer exciting knockout football tournament and honour players, coaches, referees who excel above their peers during the season. It is or sincere hope that the unity that now prevails between football authorities and administrators will help bring in more sponsors to the game. We remain confident that there will be a common sense of purpose among all football stakeholders to support our game and the image of our beautiful Zimbabwe, Karombo added.Premier League interim chairperson Keni Mubaiwa, said he is happy that they have renewed the deal, which had initially been threatened by administration squabbles. Our partnership with Delta Beverages through their Castle Lager brand will enable us to continue to develop the sport and achieve our mandate of making football more than just a game. We look forward to the continued support from our clubs, players government departments, local authorities, the media, our valued super fans and other stakeholders, Mubaiwa said.