IS it really a true mathematical analogy to believe that if you were born in abject poverty, thus, you will die a pauper? Motivation: STEVE NYAMBEEleanor Roosevelt once made one of the bold and enlightening observations when she said: The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams. The future is always calling for the dreamers. Not ordinary common dreamers. But a special type of dreamers. Dreamers who aspire to dream even during daylight, while their eyes are still wide open. Great visionaries, game changers and life champions.Dreaming big is one of the ways that has catapulted some people to levels where they went on to become symbols of excellence. Excellence that no one can afford to ignore.This is the type of the rare superb excellence that attracts magnitudes of great minds on a global scale. Excellence that can scale dizzy heights.One such story is the one that is about to follow. Are you ready to walk across the sea on a tight rope in order for you to learn something from it? Does this little story sound familiar to you? Born in a poor Chinese family. Went on to be rejected by three Chinese universities while being viewed as an academic failure.As if this was not enough, he was later denied entry into the so-called prestigious Harvard University 10 times.In his own words he chuckles and says: At Harvard, they don t want to see me. Why? It s yet to be seen.Even his own Chinese Police Recruitment Department had a strong negative opinion about him to the extent that they thought he could not make their grade of being a mere police officer. What a rib-breaking joke. To add salt to the bleeding wound, get this one again. When KFC went to China, 24 people were called for the interviews, him included.All the 23 were successful, but only him could not make the grade again for such menial work. Can you believe it? It was serious. Pathetic, discouraging and disheartening.This is the story of none other than the now top-notch business mogul and the richest man in China, Jack Ma.All these life s disturbing roadblocks that came his way did not mean much. He took them head-on, face-to-face and brushed them aside as kindergaten stuff which is fit for child s play.His story is inspiring, touching and an engine igniter to those who choose to believe in the beauty of their dreams. It keeps you on your toes, doesn t it?With your eyes wide open and your internal self ready to move on, ready to engage you to the higher notion, where there s a will there is a way. Life may be filled with ups and downs. At times, you are on mountain tops and at times you are in the valleys. Never forget that all spanners thrown your way are made for your goodness.The opinion that people may hold about you must never, in any way, define you. Never should they dictate your pace of action. Under no circumstance should it be a true reflection of you.It is only you who has the power to shape, redefine and re-engineer your future. No matter what comes and what goes, you are a powerful hotbed of success. A champion who can still emerge victorious if you just raise your life bars again.History is awash with these stories of people who rise from rags to riches, powerful analogies of people who came from nothing to something. From zeroes to heroes.Men and women whom society relegated to nothing, but went from down the valley to occupy the apex of great mountains. Constant success shows us, but one side of the world; adversity brings out the reverse of the picture, observes Charles C Cotton.When your life presents you with the reverse negative picture, don t perceive it to be the final product. It is just temporary, waiting for the picture to develop. Always bear in mind that life needs you to be brave, even if you are not, pretend to be. No one can tell the difference, articulates Jackson Brown. Move forward, don t be a prisoner. The most dangerous prison is the mentally imposed one in the form of negative self-colonisation, which later translates into self-destruction.No matter what people say, you still have the final say to be happy or unhappy. Go for the former because it is cheap and beneficial to your precious soul.Ignore the latter because it will entangle you and leave you paralysed. Paralysed today, paralysed tomorrow and paralysed forever. Psychological paralysis must be a diet of cowards. It is fit to be consumed by diners who forget that success always lies on the other side of failure.Keep pushing, failure will definitely disappear. Why not let it disappear into the dark clouds under the cloud of glory than under the cloud of shame?Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and a leadership coach. He can be contact on +263 784 583 76 or on his email: leadershiptouch@agnail.com