A POPULAR Mutare-based prophet, Madzibaba Skynage Marwakuona, who has taken the sprawling suburb by storm with his alleged extraordinary healing powers, has increasingly come under fire to disclose where he gets his powers from. BY KENNETH NYANGANIMarwakuona has been the talk of the eastern border city and he has attracted scores of people from across the country with different ailments and spiritual problems.Last year he hogged the limelight when he who reportedly exorcised a Chikanga teenage witch reportedly hissed and slithered like a snake after she was allegedly initiated by her Chipinge-based granny who owned six hyenas, five snakes, one wild cat and five owls. He has also reportedly exorcised several suspected witches who usually crash land in his suburb. This came amid accusations by fellow prophets and residents in the same neighbourhood that his powers were suspicious . NewsDay Weekender tracked down the prophet to hear his side of the story.Marwakuona denied that he was after money saying most people who seek assistance from him always come back with gifts to thank him. I am not surprised that some people question my powers. It s because of the huge congregation that is swarming my shrine on a daily basis. They do not go back home the same day. I exorcise several infirmities in Jesus name, he said. I do not ask anyone for money neither do I force anyone to come here and seek assistance. I was ordained to heal people in the name of Jesus and exorcise evil spirits that make families and marriages to break up. I deal with spirits that cause hunger, violence, hatred and betrayal in relationships and families among other infirmities. It is the devil who causes confusion among individuals and I am here to exorcise such spirits. Marwakuona added: I have helped to restore hundreds of broken marriages and I am glad to say that people are coming back to me with testimonies. The devil is using people to such an extent that we feel so comfortable to commit sin, particularly sins of the flesh. People need to pray hard and rebuke all afflictions affecting them by using Jesus name. At his shrine Marwakuona wears his usual red gown and red hat and sprinkles water on clients while they kneel down.Some slither like snakes while other howl like hyenas. He is usually accompanied by his helpers. Asked about the real source of his healing and prophetic powers he said: It s simple. It all comes from God. 