ZANU PF women s league members yesterday demonstrated for the second time in a week demanding the ouster of deputy secretary for women s affairs Eunice Sandi-Moyo and Hurungwe East MP Sarah Mahoka. BY SILAS NKALASarah MahokaHundreds of women s league representatives drawn from across the country s 10 provinces supported by the youth league demonstrated at the Bulawayo Provincial Headquarters Davis Hall calling for the ouster of Sandi-Moyo and Mahoka for allegedly undermining and insulting First Lady Grace Mugabe among a latent of corruption and theft allegations.The demonstration followed the Wednesday nationwide protests by the wing, demanding the firing of the two from the party.Representatives from all provinces waved posters bearing the portraits of Sandi Moyo and Mahoka, all marked with red X on them with the inscriptions reading Midlands say they must go. The demonstration came at a time when the pro-Sandi Moyo faction of Zanu PF believed to be G40 had also demonstrated in solidarity with her on Thursday.Indications during yesterday s demonstrations were that pro-G40 faction members had blocked some party members who wanted to attend the demonstration.They allegedly claimed there was another function where Vice-President Phelekezela Mphoko was supposed to address in Njube suburb, delaying the demonstration by over three hours. Addressing the demonstrators, Bulawayo women s league chairperson Eva Bitu, claimed to have received threatening messages from the pro-Sandi Moyo group. There are a lot of messages coming in here, some people are saying they will beat Bitu after this, Bitu said. Bitu is the child of Prophet Emmanuel Makandiwa and nothing will happen to her. A national member of the war collaborators association, Joice Ndlovu, also claimed there were people threatening to waylay protestors on their return to their homes.Matabeleland South women s league chairperson Sister Moyo said: Sandi and Mahoka must go and herd cattle and rear chickens; the job of grandmothers likes them. Midlands province women s league, secretary Lydia Mataga and Masvingo chairperson, Veronica Makonese also endorsed the duo s ouster.Manicaland chairperson, Esthel Muyambo said Mahoka and Sandi-Moyo were dividing the ruling party. We grew up being told that we must respect elders. These two do not respect elders and must go. They are disturbing Amai (Grace) at a time when she has made great progress in improving women s lives, Matabeleland North chairperson, Madeline Bhebhe said.Harare chairperson, Kasinamunda, Angeline Muchemenyi from Mashonaland West and Charity Manyeruke from Mashonaland East and a J Jonga from Mashonaland Central also echoed the same sentiments calling for the ouster of the two.Sandi-Moyo on Thursday said she was not moved by the demonstrations while demonstrating her undying loyalty to the First Family.