ZIFA and Cosafa president Philip Chiyangwa (pictured) has branded Confederation of African Football (Caf) executive committee members cowards for failing to stand up to the organisation s boss Issa Hayatou, who has been in power since 1988 and is seeking another term in elections that will be held in two weeks time. by KEVIN MAPASUREHayatou will come up against Madagascar Football Association president Ahmad Ahmad and Chiyangwa suggests it s time for the 71-year-old Cameroonian to go into retirement.The outspoken self-styled King of Selfies, who is Ahmad s campaign manager, said in an interview with a Nigerian radio station yesterday morning that Caf needed fresh leadership, adding that Hayatou was too old to lead the continental mother body.In the 10-minute explosive interview, Chiyangwa was scathing in his attack, where he also vowed to take legal action against Hayatou and Caf secretary-general Hicham Al Amrani, both of whom he said were hounding and abusing him over his birthday celebrations which were attended by other FA presidents as well as Fifa boss Gianni Infantino.Chiyangwa also said that in future he wants to see Caf coming up with an age limit to block people like Hayatou from seeking office. Going forward, we want to restore the age limit. Issa removed the age limit and said only people in the executive committee can challenge him, Chiyangwa said. Fortunately, Ahmad was not placed in there (executive committee) by Issa. Unlike the other members who are his cronies, he (Ahmad) was voted in and he is the only person who can challenge Issa, the other ones are cowards and they just sit in there directing African football. He said Ahmad would make a better leader since he is someone that is easy to engage with unlike Hayatou. Ahmad is approachable, we think he is someone we can tell that you are taking the wrong direction if he is. It s not the same with our old man (Hayatou) who does not listen to anybody. Issa will not listen to you. He purports he does not understand English when he understands what you are saying to him. He also said that it was time for Hayatou to leave football to go and take care of his grandchildren, adding that the veteran leader had overstayed his welcome.Chiyangwa wants to see Hayatou withdraw from the race before the election which takes place in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on March 16. Africa must expect Ahmad to win, my wish is for Issa to withdraw like the characters he had unleashed on me at Cosafa. We are going to make sure that he withdraws if he is not caught up by the crimes that he has committed all over the world. Chiyangwa won the Cosafa presidency after other candidates withdrew just before the election.He reiterated that all the 14 Cosafa members would vote for Ahmad while there is support from Nigeria, Liberia and Ghana, among other countries.Cosafa will support Nigeria FA president Amaju Pinnick as well as Ghana s Kwesi Nyantakyi in their endeavours to earn seats in the Caf executive committee at the Addis Ababa elections.Chiyangwa alleged that Hayatou had sought to attend his birthday party which was held in Harare on Friday night, but he snubbed him.He promised to take legal action against both Hayatou and Amrani for allegedly hounding and abusing him over his birthday celebrations. I am immediately taking legal action against Hayatou and Amrani. Even if they leave Caf, I am going after them personally. I am instructing my international lawyers to go after them. 