MORE former Zanu PF provincial youth chairpersons have joined calls for President Robert Mugabe to retire and make way for Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa. BY OBEY MANAYITIFormer Matabeleland North youth chairperson Tamuka Nyoni yesterday said although he still supported Mugabe, the succession issue was as good as resolved as only Mnangagwa was suitable to take over. We don t have a problem with Mugabe and we appreciate what he has done for this country. He laid the foundation and has come too far with Mnangagwa. If Mugabe says he is still fit to lead, then we will not dispute, but if there is someone to take over at any point, it must be Mnangagwa, Nyoni said. This is my own view and I don t expect harassment. There is freedom of expression and people are allowed to speak out their mind as given in the Constitution. We want fairness. Nyoni said one Zanu PF faction was going uncensured when it came to the succession debate. Mnangagwa should take over. He is a seasoned politician with a lot of discipline, he said. Another former youth boss in Matabeleland South province, Washington Nkomo, also told NewsDay yesterday that he did not expect to be victimised for speaking out in favour of Mnangagwa. In my own view, people should be allowed to speak out their minds without harassment. We don t want a situation where we hear some people going around telling the nation that some people are not electable, Nkomo said. The state of the country needs someone who is seasoned just like Mnangagwa. He has been there and seen it all. You can see that he is disciplined and has some order. Another expelled former youth chairperson in one of the Mashonaland provinces, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they would soon issue a comprehensive statement on their position over the succession issue.The expelled youth leaders call came after ex-Zanu PF Mashonaland Central chairperson Godfrey Tsenengamu recently called on Mugabe to quit due to advanced age and was arrested on charges of trying to subvert a constitutionally-elected government after allegedly urging the removal of the 93-year-old leader.Zanu PF is sharply divided between Mnangagwa s supporters and G40, a rival faction reportedly supporting First Lady Grace Mugabe.But, Mnangagwa has distanced himself from those calling for him to take over from Mugabe.