LEADERSHIP should be creative, critical, concerned, and be ready to embrace the future. I (JN) had a great opportunity talking to Dr Albert Odulele (AO) at Wealthy Word International Ministries. He is currently based in the United Kingdom and he is a thinker, author and evangelist. SUCCESS LIFE: JONAH NYONIHe has authored several books, including famous titles such as This Crisis is for your Increase, Think before you say I do, and Divine Assignment Indicator. Odulele has travelled to nearly 60 countries in his speaking engagements.</em>JN: What s your personal definition of leadership?AO: Influencing people for set goals and objectives. Positively influencing people in achieving set goals. Influencing nations. Influencing organisations and people to accomplish set goals.JN: Speaking about setting goals, how does a leader set transformative, futurist and pragmatic goals?AO: A leader should set goals basing on purpose, vision, assignment, and their role. The goals of a doctor will be different from that of a lawyer depending on the task to be handled.JN: What are the best practices for leadership administration in a corporate, church or any other organisation?AO: One of the things needful in an African context probably because I have had the privilege of travelling quite a bit around the world, in almost about 60 nations, is that Africa must have structures.This is the creation of necessary structures to carry out goals and objectives in a governmental, church or in any organisation. Structures for appointing staff, structures for training people involved in different objectives.Structures for handling money. Structures for accountability, discipline, correction, recording things and a whole lot of things necessary for great leadership.You will realise that some organisations don t outlive their founders because they don t have structures.So, as long as the founder is in place, people respect the voice of the founder on administrative matters. When the founder leaves, they are all kinds of questions. For example, at Glory House, the church I lead, we have a document with over 300 pages called The Commission. It states everything in writing, our administrative and structural systems. Even I as the pastor, I have a succession plan that shows who takes over after me so people that people don t start fighting when I decide to step out of the scene.So all those administrative structures need to be created and recorded. And I think that in the African leadership context, administration systems must be created and documented.JN: As Africans, how do we brace ourselves for disruptive leadership being brought about by new global technologies?AO: One of the entrances for Africans is enlightenment, illumination and empowerment.Africans need to be enlightened, which is slightly different from education. By definition, education is learning to read and write and to schooled in a certain way.You may be educated, but not enlightened and our masses must be educated, then enlightened about the world they live in, otherwise it will be hard for them to engage 21st century global conversations. Governments and those in authority and power need to invest more time, thought, energy and money in education and enlightenment. That is what I consider as one of the necessary things on the list of African leadership.An average African can t just think of how to survive and to make it, they need to be thinking and enlightened on how to get ahead of the game.Africa is an emerging global market of today. The West is coming into Africa because we are an emerging market.JN: If you were to advise African leadership, how do we delegate power to young leadership to be ready to take over?AO: A lot of African leadership is out-dated, parochial, and restricted to certain time zones. If I was to advise leadership, I will talk about bringing a younger generation of leaders who are astute, exposed professionally.Who are deep thinkers, creative originators, technocrats, who can study dynamics and challenges and prefer solutions that are long-lasting.I speak to presidents, prime ministers, and I always tell them that they need to speak to the millennial generation. I would number those between the ages of 16 and 35. We would need to empower them and give them identity.There is an entire generation of young Africans who have lost identity. We need young people who would ask crucial questions: Who am I, what am I? What is my purpose? Which is a whole lot more than just education.JN: How does one marry leadership with their personal gifting?AO: Your leadership employs your personal giftings. Your personal gifting will colour, speak through and express itself through leadership.This all is dependent on how they develop their gift. Having a gift is one thing and honing your skills is another issue. The more the gift is developed, the more it would find expression in leadership.JN: In one of your books your talk of thinking. To me leadership and thinking are synonymous or inseparable. So how does leadership embrace deep thinking?AO: That s a deep topic for another day. I wrote a book The Prosperity of The Soul, and it examines detailed dynamics of intellectual prowess, emotional intelligence, the deployment of the will and the dimensions of the soul.The soul involves your intellect, the capacity to think and thought processing. The emotions pertain to how you feel, and how you interact with other people s feelings.I am a pastor and expositor of the Word and I believe in deep thinking, intellectual engagement, creative thinking, inspired thinking, solution providing, and emotional intelligent.There is a whole new genre of education that talks about understanding not only your emotions, but being able to interact with the emotions of others for leadership effectiveness in business, at home, as a nation.Mahatma Ghandi had the power of will working for him. The late former South African President Nelson Mandela decided what must be done and it was done. All those areas can be enhanced, developed and perfected.In fact, you are first a leader within before you can be a leader without. You can t grow out if you have not grown in. JN: We have a plethora of natural resources in Africa, but how do we become resourceful?AO: I think creativity comes, and is birthed out of necessity. We become creative when we have a sense of necessity or if we realise that something has to change here. Creativity comes from a sense of compassion. One of the problems we have in African leadership, particularly political, is a class of leaders who don t really care and are not touched by the sufferings of people.So being resourceful comes from seeing the need to help others and bring solutions to their plights.Jonah Nyoni is an author, success coach and certified leadership/business trainer. He is the author of Inspiration for Success and Success Within Reach. He can be contacted on &#8211; Tel: 0772 581 918. Email:jonah@classicmail.co.za. Twitter@jonahnyoni.