DYNAMOS assistant coach Biggie Zuze is happy with the spirit in the team and says he is ready for the challenge to bring the Glamour Boys back to where they belong in domestic football. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAZuze rejoined his boyhood club as assistant coach to Lloyd Mutasa last week after a stint with Triangle.He replaced Murape Murape, who was relieved of his duties after coming short of the new requirements by Zifa for a Premiership coach to have at least a Caf A coaching badge to sit on the technical bench.And, having worked in the past week with the team that has undergone a revolution following the departure of several stars for greener pastures, the former Dynamos midfielder said he was happy with the spirit and commitment in the players ahead of the start of the next season. It s nice to be back at home. This is my boyhood team, the team that made me what I am today and I didn t think twice about it, Zuze said. I just packed my bags and I know it is difficult at Dynamos because it s a big institution, but I can handle the pressure that comes with it. Many people say that Dynamos didn t do well last season by their standards. I thought Mutasa did well under difficult circumstances and we will try to bring Dynamos to where it belongs. What is important is to work together as a team and I can say I am happy with the spirit and commitment so far. The former Triangle assistant coach also said he had been talking to youngsters to make them understand the rich history of Dynamos so that they know what is expected from them. The team has a lot of young players and not many big names and I have been telling them that Dynamos is a big institution with a rich history and that they have to fight to enhance the brand. And I am happy everyone is working hard. The commitment is there and together I am confident we can achieve our objectives, Zuze said. Dynamos finished in fifth position last term behind eventual champions Caps United, runners-up FC Platinum, Highlanders who finished third and Chicken Inn (fourth).The Glamour Boys travelled to Mozambique, where they played friendly matches as part of their preparations for the forthcoming season.Dynamos, who have a largely youthful squad, have added one more senior player into their books former Kaizer Chiefs defender Lincoln Zvasiya.Zvasiya played in last week s friendly match against Chapungu and impressed Mutasa as he rebuilds a team that will compete in the forthcoming season.The Premier Soccer League season is expected to kick off in the first week of April.