Our dear leader, President Robert Mugabe, has a boastfully proud disposition and is presiding over an incompetent administration. Without a doubt, this makes him a selfish individual whose preoccupation is love of self, as opposed to loving others. guest column: MUTSA MURENJEPresident Robert MugabeIf he cared, Mugabe would know the need to slow down in life, since he is already in his 90s. He has grown too old to be seen having four flying trips in 19 days. Although we have been forced to believe that diplomacy is costly, it better not be at our expense as Zimbabweans. Diplomacy would be a lot cheaper if the President didn t have to fly everywhere.Zimbabwe has representatives in a number of countries and these could represent our country, whenever there is an event requiring such representation. This is how we can reduce the incessant costs of diplomacy in the 21st century. Why is it that Mugabe wants to be everywhere, as if he still has something to offer to our country? There are young people who are capable of moving this nation forward, these are the people who should be active when it comes to matters beneficial to our country. Mugabe has played his part in freeing our nation from the bondage of colonialism. However, the role he plays at present is destructive and is detrimental to our well-being as Zimbabweans. It is entirely one thing to fight against colonial oppression and it is another to be oppressing the people you claim to have liberated from the jaws of colonial oppression and injustices.This is morally wrong because the difference between our colonial oppressors and the present administration is slim if not non-existent. We have continued with our oppressive colonial past. We are still paying with our lives for our freedom. This is not the way a country is governed. Our nation s resources are only benefitting a few. We have been impoverished and silenced. The incompetent government doesn t expect us to voice our concerns. If we do, we are called all sorts of names. We don t need to be anybody s stooge to be heard. This is a fundamental right enshrined in our Constitution and is universal.For our sake and that of our children, a new administration is required to take charge of our country. We can t keep holding on to the so-called 2013 electoral mandate when no progress has been made. We are tired of unfulfilled promises and we are sick of your incompetence. We need space to breathe and realise our life goals.It isn t right that Mugabe and his incompetence keep standing in the way of our progress. No, we can t keep going this way. We need change, a radical departure from bad governance and dictatorship. We need a competent and responsive government. As Zimbabweans, we have suffered enough to continue bickering over political positions.We need to grow up and focus on the most important task at hand, freeing our country from the dictatorial tendencies and incompetence of the Mugabe regime. Zimbabwe has resources and these need to be sustainably used for our benefit and that of future generations. I hadn t done it in a long time, but had the opportunity to do so recently. I have had the chance to drive over a number of roads in Zimbabwe. It is sad that our roads are in a poor state. It is not possible to observe the speed limits shown on our roads because you will be forced to even drive slower than you ought to.If you ignore this, then you might as well speed to your own death. Road markings have also disappeared. It s hard to see the lines demarcating the road. What is visible in most cases are the potholes that have become death traps on our roads. Recently, a family of 14 perished on our poor roads. Something must be done to stop this carnage. The millions spent on endless trips by the President could surely be channelled towards improving our road infrastructure. Not everyone prefers flying. There are visitors to our country, whose vehicles will be damaged by our poor roads. These will discourage others from visiting our country. Good roads save lives and maximise the potential tourist benefit that could earn us foreign currency.Besides, how do we move our agricultural produce to markets when roads are bad and some areas inaccessible? We are sitting on our potential to turn around this economy. There are also a number of frustrations that I have experienced in Zimbabwe during my recent trip. I have purchased fuel before and I prefer doing so via card transactions. I am not a cash baron that I need to move around with money.Besides, there is no cash in Zimbabwe for one to even dream of moving around with money. At fuel stations, the attendants require that you swipe your card first before you get the fuel. I have never heard of anything like this before ever since I started driving.There is no way a normal man of my calibre would drive to a garage to buy fuel when without money. It is an unnecessary burden to have the motorist estimate how much money would be used before the fuel has been bought. I have indicated numerous times that I need a refill of my fuel tank. In most cases, I wouldn t know how much fuel the car would require, but my interest would be in filling the tank because I know I have the requisite financial wherewithal to do so. I hate it when I can t be trusted by a man or woman who expects my trust in return.On a serious note, this is not the problem of the fuel attendant, but the manner in which our incompetent government runs this country. We shouldn t have any problems with card transactions. They work everywhere else on this continent and why should it be problem when it comes to Zimbabwe?I have had similar problems trying to pay toll fees at toll gates. This isn t right. I don t know if it s only me who has had to go through the pain of waiting just because my card couldn t work immediately. This ought to be fixed. We are living in the digital age and we need to prove that we are ready for this age.However, the present government has proven that it is not ready but incompetent to take advantage of this age.There can be no doubt too that corruption must be fought for this country to be where it ought to be. I am not sure though that the solution lies in having the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority officials wearing the I am not corrupt T-shirts.I can see our passion, but it s entirely misplaced. Imagine having to wear such a T-shirt and still engage in corrupt activities. Who is fooling who? Please stop insulting us. T-shirts don t fight corruption, people do. One doesn t necessarily have to fight corruption just by virtue of wearing a T-shirt. We need to be taught about the dangers of corruption and why it is important to be honest even when without a T-shirt. Finally, the situation in banks needs to improve. People keep queuing for their money whose supply is epileptic like the way electricity is supplied in Nigeria, an oil producing country! The rot in the government has spread to all sectors of the economy like a malignant cancer.It might be too late to employ radiotherapy to our country if we don t change from the top to the bottom. I love our country and have no doubt whatsoever that we can do better than most African countries. I know we are capable.Let s do something about the issues raised herein. Let s do it for our country and our children. May God help Zimbabwe! The struggle continues unabated!Mutsa Murenje is a social activist