THE Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) Company has sold 80% of exhibition space, as preparations for this year s edition of the premier trade showcase gather pace, an official has said. BY MTHANDAZO NYONIThe event runs between April 25 and 29 under the theme Harnessing Linkages for Industrial Development. Preparations for the 58th edition of the annual Zimbabwe International Trade Fair are progressing well, and projections are that we will have a fruitful show, ZITF company marketing and public relations manager, Stella Nkomo, said. To date, over 37 500 square metres have been reserved, which represents close to 80% of space available for sale. She said the multi-sectoral event will provide a principal forum for networking and key opportunities, so as to further propel exponential growth for Zimbabwe s economy.Nkomo said efforts to engage the international community were proving to be rewarding, as enquiries were coming in from as far as Europe and Asia. Our network of international sales agents continues to work with us to attract participants from more markets, she said.So far, 13 countries have confirmed their participation and these include Botswana, China, Ethiopia, Germany, Iran, Japan, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Tanzania and Turkey.They also have provisional bookings from Indonesia, India and United Arab of Emirates. Nkomo said the company was cognisant of the fact that exhibitors want value from their participation at this premier tradeshow, hence different strategies have been put in place.In the same regard, the company has launched the Exhibitors Master-class , which is a first of its kind in Zimbabwe. It is a highly interactive and informative session targeted at individuals and companies wishing to make the most of their participation locally and internationally, she said.It will be held on March 14, 2017 in Harare at the Rainbow Towers. The master-class seeks to equip exhibitors with strategies on how to participate successfully at any exhibition around the world with tangible results.The training would be facilitated by the region s renowned exhibitions strategists such as Joy Donovan from Expo Expertise and Patrick Cronning from Expo Guys all from South Africa. The objective of this master-class is to make the latest and best exhibiting knowledge available to every exhibitor, at the right time in the tradeshow execution cycle so that all exhibitors can experience the incredible results available from effective exhibiting, Nkomo said.