Compiled BY WINSTONE ANTONIO7 Arts TheatreGospel diva Caroline Mujokoro will have a Live DVD and CD recording called X-Trim Worship 1 tomorrow at the 7 Arts Theatre in Harare. Mujokoro is restarting the project she had initially recorded in February last year after losing some of the recorded material.Alliance Francaise, HarareTrust Mutekwa popularly known as Ticha Muzavazi in arts circles will tomorrow launch the first Zimbabwean mbira instructional book titled Ticha Muzavazi s Nhunga Mbira Handbook: An Enthralling Exploration of the 15-Key Mbira. Hope Masike, Victor Kunonga, St Giles Band and Alexio Kawara will provide entertainment at the event.Zimbabwe Open University CampusAbout 13 contestants will walk on the ramp as Zimbabwe Open University (ZOU) tomorrow crowns the first-ever Miss ZOU Harare Campus queen at a two-in-one event that will also witness a fashion show on the campus. A brainchild of the Student Representative Board, the pageant will be held under the theme Visibility-Heels and Boots Stepping Over New STI and HIV Infections amongst Youths.Club Super LabelDancehall music producers PTK and Levels will tomorrow launch their latest riddim at Club Super Label in Harare. An array of artistes among them Kinnah, Seh Calaz, Ricky Fire, Lady Squanda, Hwindi President, Platinum Prince, Shinsoman and Boom Beto will perform, while Aftershock Sound wheel spinners will be on the turntables.Takarangana Nite ClubPeter Young Igwe Moyo tomorrow entertains patrons at Takarangana Night Club in Hatcliffe, supported by Senator Tichavareva and his Skylimit Express.Jazz 24/7Braveman Baba Harare Chizvino, a former member of Jah Prayzah s Third Generation band, tonight shares the stage with flamboyant rapper, Carlos Green, as they take turns to entertain patrons. Baba Harare will be backed by The City Vibration band, while Green will be backed by Afro Mix.Miami Night ClubMiami Night Club in Sunningdale will reverberate to the sounds of dendera music as Sulumani Chimbetu performs at the joint tonight. Tomorrow he takes his act to Zvishavane at a private function before wrapping up his shows with a performance at Club Tabula in Southley Park on Sunday.Warren Park 1 BarDancehall chanters Killer T and Seh Calaz tomorrow share the stage at Warren Park 1 Bar, alongside wheel spinners DJ Cables and Malovers, who will be on the turntablesJongwe CornerJah Prayzah on Sunday entertains patrons at a family show at Jongwe Corner in Hatfield alongside rapper Carlos Green.Liquid BarAfro-jazz musician, Alexio Kawara on Sunday shares the stage with Progress Chipfumo at Liquid Bar, formerly Kudzanai Bar, in Katanga, Norton.Club VeritasThe Westlea joint tomorrow hosts Afro-jazz musician Mbeu and Mhodzi Tribe.Pagomba Caf , BeitbridgeTocky Vibes, Beverly Sibanda and contemporary singer Samuel Dondo will perform in Beitbridge tonight before heading for Ritz Night Club in Masvingo tomorrow.Club Eclipse, Gweru Hip-hop sensation Tehn Diamond takes his Tehn Outta Ten tour to Gweru tonight with a performance at Club Eclipse supported by songstress Ammara Brown, Simba Tags and Thaiwanda Thai. Tomorrow they will entertain merrymakers at Club Connect located at Cecil Hotel in Bulawayo. The concerts are meant to market Tehn Diamond s latest album A Few Good Poems (AFGP).CLUB 4-4-2Dubbed The House of Reggae, Club 4-4-2 situated at Clyde Shops in Eastlea will host Transit Crew and other reggae bands on Saturday from 7pm. Entrance for ladies is free before 9pm. Patrons will also be treated to the first beer or soft drink free of charge. Be prepared for massive non-stop reggae vibes till dawn.