American prophet Rev W M Branham once said: Our doubts are our traitors and make us lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt. Doubting is the major killer of your potential. Enerst Holmes moves further to add the icing on the cake by giving another analogy on the above when he says: Life is a mirror and will reflect back to the thinker what he thinks of it. Your life is not defined by your past. Never. It is not shaped by the current external circumstances. It is neither a by-product of other people s attitudes nor perspectives about you. No, not all. Motivation: STEVE NYAMBEIt is just a pure design of your current thinking. It is the type of the gear you engage in at the present moment that will drive your future. How you nourish your mind will just turn to be the key driving force for your future. It starts with you. You alone. Only you and no one else. So the game is yours. Start competing. Winning is not an impossible assignment in your case. Just identify your enemy.Your enemy is not far. Your enemy is not a foreign one at all. Your enemy in your journey to victory is you who is reading this article. That s the person you see when you stand in front of a mirror. The Holy Scriptures paint the same picture about it when it says: My people perish because of lack of knowledge. Knowledge sometimes may be the only thing you want to progress.Get this great story about life and see how you always miss opportunities. One day a village elder called his people for a gathering. So in his opening remarks the elderly man said: Today I intend to notify you about the death of your enemy. The huge gathering started wondering with great amazement. They were utterly shocked. They could not believe what they had heard.During that time of disbelief they were all asked to move towards the front. At the front was a casket. Inside that casket lay a beautiful head-size mirror.Unfortunately all these villagers did not know what was inside. The elderly man then asked them to keep moving forward in a single file. As they started moving at a snail s pace towards this casket, they were just weary and totally disturbed. Their faces were emitting tonnes of sorrow like that of a sick widow. Sympathy was written all over their old faces. It was really a sombre and a sorrowful moment for the village.One by one they got to the casket. As they peeped into this casket they all realised that there was nothing inside.It was just empty, but they could only see the reflection of their faces once they stood next to the casket.After they had all passed, the old man then rose to start his speech. He looked frail and weak, clothed in tattered remnant. His face suggested that he was engulfed by the highest level of confusion and primitiveness. You would think he knew nothing before you heard him speak. So he went on to narrate to the villagers what his initial saying and act meant.He then said their enemy was the one whom they saw when they looked into the mirror which was tightly fixed into the casket. Indeed it was a message and a half for those villagers. It was an astonishing and inspiring life lesson. It made them pause and reflect on important life issues.That s how your life is. Many times you waste your time playing the blame game. Labelling everyone as the only cause of your problems and misfortunes. Why not stop it and look at life afresh? Keep your face always towards the sunshine and shadows will fall behind you, advises Walt Whitman.Blame no one. Take responsibility. Take charge. Be a lion among wolves. Start hunting for change of attitude. Change yourself and everything will change for the better.In The 6 Powerful Ways to Enhance Your Self-Esteem, Louise L Hay says: Remember you have been criticising yourself for years and it hasn t worked. Try approving yourself and see what happens. Give it a trial. It can be done. It is within reach for you to overcome any obstacle. Nothing can stand in your way. When you change yourself, everything around you changes.Re-wire, re-engineer and reprogramme yourself. Get a new hard drive for your mental faculties. Change your software. Leave the old one behind today. This is the one that was secretly installed in you by your previous negative pitfalls. Drop it. You just need to, no matter what. Just carry only what works for the future marathon.Since your future is a race, get onto the track and compete. Approach your battles like an injured elephant. Grab this great strategy, wave it in front of any danger. It will help you conquer any circumstance. It can be done. Be blessed. Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach. He can be contacted on +263 784 583 76 or on his email: leadershiptouch@agnail.com