Premier Soccer League giants Dynamos have received a timely boost after stocky defender Elisha Muroiwa and forward Wisdom Mutasa returned home from Tanzania on Monday in time for the potentially explosive season opener against FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAElisha MuroiwaThe pair signed contracts with Singida United, who will be joining the Tanzanian top-flight league from August this year. The club has already snapped up Chicken Inn and Warriors midfielder Tafadzwa Kutinyu.Muroiwa, a key member of the Warriors and part of the squad that participated at the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations finals, said he was happy to have finally sealed a deal with a foreign club.He said he was looking to a good outing with the club when he links up with his teammates in June. It is the dream of every player to play abroad and I am happy that this has come true. I just went there to sign a contract. I didn t go for trials; this is why I am back. I returned yesterday (Monday) and will be going back in June. My focus now is on our match against FC Platinum, Muroiwa said. Dynamos have been rebuilding a new team around experienced players like Muroiwa following the departure of several key players. However, that rebuilding exercise has suffered a blow because of the imminent departures of Muroiwa and Mutasa.The former champions, who had a disappointing campaign last term in which they finished in fifth place, have a tough opening fixture against FC Platinum at home on Sunday.After that, they make the trip to Triangle for another tricky encounter. They host Premiership returnees Black Rhinos in week three before embarking on another long trip to the Colliery to face Hwange.Then there is the Harare derby set for week seven when Dynamos host Caps United and after that the Glamour Boys travel to Bulawayo for another high-profile clash with Highlanders.Dynamos failed to beat Caps United last year after losing the first match before the two played out an exciting three-all draw as the Green Machine charged towards the finishing line. However, it is the Dynamos/FC Platinum match that has drawn so much interest as it pits two coaches, Lloyd Mutasa and Norman Mapeza, who are desperate to win the title for their respective clubs.Mapeza managed the runners-up spot in a very close contest with eventual champions Caps United and third-placed Highlanders last season while Mutasa could only achieve a fifth place finish.This time around both coaches will be looking to make amends. With Lloyd Mutasa hard-pressed for a good start, the return of his son Wisdom and Muroiwa came as a major boost ahead of the high-profile clash on Sunday.