HIGH-FLYING teen model, Yollanda Chimbarami (19), has struck gold after clinching a one-year contract with Panache Model Management of Canada, which would afford her the chance to showcase her talent on the global stage. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOYollanda ChimbaramiThe former Miss Harare Junior told NewsDay from her base in Canada, where she is studying Banking and Finance at the University of Manitoba, that penning the deal was a milestone in her career. This is something inspiring as I seek to grow my career from strength to strength. The modelling industry here (in Canada) is broad as there are vast opportunities in terms of shows and photo shoots that will help me hone my skills, she said. My first show will be on May 7 and I am excited and nervous at the same time, as they are a few black African models this side. Chimbarami said she had also been selected to attend an all-expenses paid-for conference to be held in that country s capital, Ottawa, from May 20 to 22 for her charity project called Help A Child, Save A Nation.Back home, the project won the Most Outstanding Charity project gong at the 2016 Zimbabwe Models Awards.In August, Chimbarami will be flying the Zimbabwean flag high at the World Championships of Performing Arts (WCOPA) in Hollywood in the United States. My parents are my role models as they have taught me that the brain is the most powerful organ in a human body. As long as you believe in yourself, are focused and goal-oriented, you can do anything since nothing is impossible, she said.Having ventured into modelling at the age of 16, the beauty queen became the youngest model to participate at the national pageant Miss Zimbabwe 2015 at the age of 17.Chimbarami has been focusing on commercial modelling, which has seen her work with some of the best designers including Nigeria-based TIR brand owner Danielle Ellen and David Tlale of South Africa, as well as fashion retailers Edgars and Jet.Meanwhile, Zim Gossip Models agency founder Mercy Mushaninga said she hoped Chimbarami s jackpot would open doors for other local models. Chimbarami s deal shows how good the talent we have in our modelling industry, which can be appreciated by an international agency, she said. There is no doubt that with such a development they will appreciate our country and probably start working with more of our models. 