ASSISTANCE from British aid agency, Operation Florian has helped the Bulawayo City Council s fire and ambulance services department to increase its level of disaster preparedness over the years, mayor Martin Moyo has said. BY SHARON SIBINDI/ TALENT GUMPOMoyo was speaking at the handover ceremony of fire and rescue equipment donated by Operation Florian (UK), where he indicated that the humanitarian organisation has assisted the city for the past six years. This donation is an indication of the growing partnership we have established with the humanitarian aid organisation over the years. I am proud to mention that as a city we have not only improved in our fire and rescue services, but this partnership has significantly increased the level of emergency preparedness of the city s fire rescue services. We are grateful for the donations which will help us improve our services, he said. This year we were also honoured to have delegates from Zambia and we hope they have also gained experience from the training. Staff from city s fire department along with their counterparts from Zambian municipalities underwent an intensive two-week training which Moyo said will help improve service delivery and exposed the city to international training standards in fire and emergency services.The mayor paid tribute to former fire officer, Shepherd Ndlovu, for facilitating the donation and training.British Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Catriona Laing thanked Operation Florian for donating the equipment.Bulawayo chief fire officer, Richard Peterson said the city has received vehicles, equipment and materials estimated at over $2 million since the partnership began. To this end, Bulawayo emergency services is a proud recipients of 10 water tenders, two ariel appliances, one ambulance and seven twenty-foot containers filled with an assortment of equipment estimated to $2,5 million, he said. In 2011, we received our first consignment of one water tender and a 20-feet container with assortment of fire-fighting and rescue equipment, personal protective equipment and clothing, mechanical workshop and ambulance equipment and materials. Peterson added that as at December 2016, Bulawayo had recorded a reduction in fire occurrence from 691 in 2015 to 383 in 2016, representing 45% decrease.