NORMAN Mapeza wants a successful return to the Warriors fold when he takes charge of the team for the first time since 2012, in an international friendly against neighbours Zambia at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. BY HENRY MHARAFrom left: Warriors interim coach Norman Mapeza and players Patson Jaure and Dennis Dauda during yesterday s training session in HarareThe former Galatasaray player coached the national side during the 2012 Nations Cup qualifiers before he was banned from the game by Zifa for his alleged involvement in the Asiagate match-fixing scam.He has since been exonerated and this week bounced back after being named Warriors caretaker coach to double with his FC Platinum job, and his immediate challenge is to beat Chipolopolo.The two teams are using the match to prepare for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers which begin in June. It s a good feeling to be back. I m doing this for the country. Today it s me, tomorrow it could be Tonderai Ndiraya, Mhofu [Sunday Chidzambwa] or Lloyd Chitembwe leading the team. We need to do it for the national cause. I don t think there is anybody out there who doesn t want to work for the country. There have been some challenges, but at the end of the day, this is life and we need to move on sometimes, Mapeza said. It s always good to win, whether at club level or with the national team. Representing the national team is always a good feeling and it gets better when you win. Mapeza said he would accept the Warriors job on a permanent basis if given the opportunity. He said he has no clue on what his future with the team holds. I am employed by FC Platinum and it depends on them. If there is a good understanding between the Zifa board and my club, maybe they can strike a deal. I can t just leave there, because it s a stable job, so my future with the Warriors depends on what FC Platinum would say. While the team is using the match for the upcoming qualifiers, but for Mapeza, the immediate target is improving on the Fifa rankings. It s about Fifa rankings, we need to win, so that we can improve our position. That is the most important thing about this match. We need to prepare for the upcoming qualifiers, but also improve on the rankings. Zimbabwe is currently ranked 109 in the Fifa world rankings, and 35 in Africa, while Zambia is at 90, and 22 respectively.The Warriors started their training yesterday with two sessions and Mapeza is satisfied with the players physical condition. We worked on the tactical side of football since we don t have much time. All of them are on their pre-season training now and they look okay. Caps United and Ngezi have been involved in Caf competitions and that gives us an edge in terms of match fitness and that is why we selected the bulk of our players from those two teams. All the players, except for the injured Tendai Ndoro and Teenage Hadebe, who have been ruled out, and Evans Rusike, trained yesterday. Rusike, who plays for Maritzburg United in South Africa, is expected in the country today.