There is probably an element of truth in that the Zimbabwean elections will always be determined by the rural vote. By Kingstone Jambawo,Our Reader Opposition parties are yet to focus specifically on the contributions of the rural voters in shaping the election outcomes.In 2000 99,97% of registered voters were in rural areas compared to 67,94% of voters in urban areas. There were irregularities in 2013 with more registered voters in a district than the actual number of people who lived there.In order to win the rural vote which constitutes about 70% of the Zimbabwean electorate, Zanu PF has always used terrorisation in all the rural constituencies since independence. The rural residents have always voted for dictatorship in fear of terrorisation, as well as for keeping their land and for receiving the food aid from international donors which is being used as bribes by Zanu PF.Despite the misery caused by Zanu PF, we are going to have yet another five years of disaster after 2018 unless and until the opposition gets its act together in their quest for the rural vote. To avoid a disaster of greater proportions, the opposition has to make inroads into this very difficult terrain if there is going to be any hope of winning by a landslide in the forthcoming 2018 elections.They need to come up with better strategies on how they can achieve this than the current plan of just visiting the rural constituencies.The loss of elections has rightly been attributed to the violent nature of Zanu PF. In fact, Zanu PF has been violent since independence.However, urban voters have resisted that and voted for the opposition in response to the misery and suffering that they have endured. They have not succumbed even after the 2008 pre- and post-election punishments that have been inflicted upon them. So what is it with the rural voters?The definition of democracy to rural Zimbabwe seems to mean that elections are held after every five years. The fear factor is by no means trivial. I am not dismissing fear as an important reason behind their vote, but I am highlighting the urgent need to address other factors.Activists have mush-roomed through social media suggesting that people in the urban areas are less subject-like.Certainly, urban Zimbabweans value democracy most highly, thus, they place enormous importance on elections and voting. On the contrary, the rural villagers are still subject-like preferring to focus on their traditional ways of survival. This may be due to lack of information.Although there have been some improvements on the use of WhatsApp, very few people have access to social media.In addition to pointing out the way forward on economic policies that attract investment to generate employment, the opposition has to do more to counter fear, bribery, resignation and, most importantly, the rural conservatism.The rural electorate s political behaviour has to be at the forefront of any strategies to change minds. The rural voters still retain a high degree of trust in chiefs, who are on the government s payroll, and traditional leaders or village headmen who may also be a ward chairman for Zanu PF. These are very powerful political forces with enormous local power than they should be allowed to have. These forces are motivated by their gratefulness to Zanu PF and are not hesitant to sanction violence as a variable.Ignoring the rural voter is basically handing power to Zanu PF. There will be no significant inroads into the incumbent s heartlands until the rural values have been recognised and land insecurity resolved. Political celebrity status alone cannot change people s minds. It is what you can do for them that does.