Winky DCOMPILED BY WINSTONE ANTONIOAlliance Fran aise, HarareThe curtain comes down tomorrow at the 2017 Zimbabwe Francophonie Cultural Festival that roared to life on March 18 in Harare and Bulawayo respectively. To round off the festival, a free-of-charge music concert featuring a three-country band, Sa Roy and The Forest Jam, with members from Madagascar, South Africa and Switzerland), will be held tomorrow at Alliance Fran aise in Harare. Theatre in the Park, HarareInternationally acclaimed and award-winning Afro-fusion group, Mokoomba, tonight will launch their much-awaited new album titled Luyando (which means Love in Tonga). The album has tracks in Tonga, Nyanja, Luvale and Shona. Mokoomba combines traditional and modern instruments with a rich blend of rhythms, creating a vibrant sound consisting of not only traditional Tonga music, but embracing the diverse cultures of southern Africa.Gospel musician, Pastor G, tomorrow hosts a praise and worship concert at Theatre in the Park in Harare to celebrate his 18-year music career during which he has released 10 albums. At the concert, the Mabiribobi hitmaker will be supported by Sharon Manyika, Petronellah Sengwayo, Billy Ngoreta, Prayersoul and Psalmist Josh Kays, among others.LongCheng PlazzaReigning Miss Deaf Zimbabwe, Kuda Mapeture, is set to surrender her crown tomorrow as the pageant makes a return after a four-year sabbatical against a background of financial constraints. A bevy of 14 beauties are set to catwalk for the coveted title.Old KebabDancehall fans will be in for a treat tomorrow as top chanters Winky D and Shinsoman share the stage with at a free-of-charge gig at Old Kebab in Newlands, Harare. The best moment of the Black and Yellow themed gig will be when the Mawaya Waya hitmaker and the Ninja President perform their duet Survivor, off the latter s Gafa Life album. DJ Stavo will be on the decks.Pakare Paye Arts CentreSungura maestro Alick Macheso and Oliver Tuku Mtukudzi will tomorrow share the stage at the Dzvamu Tsvamu concert featuring rising musician and guitarist Norman Masamba at Pakare Paye Arts Centre. Joina City SquareMusician Willis Wataffi has partnered with DStv for a Thank You Concert set for tomorrow at Joina City Square in Harare. Wataffi will also use the concert meant to thank DStv subscribers for keeping connected to launch his 13-track album is yet to be unveiled in the country after its launch in Dubai last year. He will be supported by gospel artistes Pastor G, Sebastian Magacha, Believers Choir and Tytan.The Usual Place, Cresta Jameson HotelFamed for his hit song Shaina, Afro-jazz musician Alexio Kawara supported by the Shades of Black tonight serenade patrons at The Usual Place bar at Cresta Jameson Hotel in Harare. Tomorrow he takes his act to Bar Rouge situated at LongCheng Plaza Mall for a black and/or white to themed concert.New Members Night ClubKinnah tonight takes his act to New Members Night Club, formerly Nyaguwa, in Dzivaresekwa were he will share the stage with an array of upcoming artistes among them Jazzman, Mabrown, Buju Bruce, Ras Prince, Sharkstan and Equation. DJ Swagger, Gaza Empire and DJ Professor will be rocking it on the turntables.Dandaro InnSulumani Chimbetu tonight performs at Dandaro Inn at the Harare Exhibition Park. Tomorrow he will take his latest offering, Jamboree, to Bindura where he will perform at Tendai Hall alongside prolific guitarists Progress Chipfumo.Tanza Centre, ChitungwizaTanza Centre will tomorrow reverberate to the sounds of sungura and dancehall as sungura kingpin Alick Macheso shares the stage with Faheem Somanje and a stranger in the house, dancehall singer Seh Calaz.The Legends Sport DinerAndy Muridzo tomorrow takes his latest 13-track album Tichambotenderera to Marondera with a performance at The Legends Sport Diner. The Dherira hitmaker will share the stage with his mentor, Jah Prayzah, who has taken him on board as part of his Military Touch Movement, which also includes Nutty O and ExQ.Club Mandisa, MutareClub Mandisa in Mutare tomorrow hosts Peter Muparutsa and The Runn Family as they share the stage with Assegai Crew.Zimbabwe Academy of Music Rainbow Marimba blaze band will today hold the fifth edition of Schools marimba concert at Zimbabwe Academy of Music in Bulawayo.Club 263 Dancehall chanter Boom Beto of the Munodonhedza Musika fame will tonight rock Club 263 in Bulawayo sharing the stage with POY. Boom Beto s song appears to have won the hearts of many proving to be a national anthem that has seen him staging shows across the country.