NetOne has launched a value-added service, which allows its subscribers to listen to the latest news from favourite stations, as the country s second largest operator intensifies its push to win the hearts of subscribers in the competitive industry. BY BUSINESS REPORTERNetOne executive (marketing) Juliet Ziswa (left) and the mobile firm s executive media manager Clever IsayaThe service, News on One, enables NetOne subscribers to listen to news on their phones, according to acting chief executive officer Brian Mutandiro. We are excited to be launching this service, which we are sure provides convenience to our subscribers. Our subscribers have different professions, engagements and responsibilities to the extent that they might not be able to listen to the latest news from their favourite radio stations. Wherever one is they can just dial 337 and access latest news so I say to our subscribers is, if it s breaking, if it s business, if it s hot then it s for you, Mutandiro said. News on One makes sure that you don t miss any breaking news from your favourite radio stations. In addition, you can share the news to any number of your in the NetOne network. He said the product range was tailor-made to suit the everyday connectivity needs and the mobile operator would continue to listen and learn about the ever-changing needs of the subscriber and more importantly, act on them .Mutandiro said he was humbled by the confidence shown by stakeholders in partnering with the operator.NetOne has been on the forefront of technological innovation and has been introducing packages that have lured subscribers to the network.The OneFusion, launched in July last year, has been the game changer as it combines voice, data and social media at affordable rates for the subscriber.The operator has also launched OneMusic with content ranging from gospel, zimdancehall, hip-hop and house music. NetOne has been winning the battle for subscribers after its active subscriber base increased by 14% last year to 4 712 410 when rivals registered a drop in numbers, according to latest figures from the Postal and Telecommunication Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe (Potraz).Data from Potraz showed that in 2016, NetOne added 577 690 new active subscribers, while Econet and Telecel s numbers declined by 341 787 and 114 387, respectively.The growth in active subscribers saw NetOne s market share increasing to 36,6% in the fourth quarter ended December 31 up from 36,4% in the previous quarter.Econet s market share was flat at 49,4%, while Telecel s share dropped to 14% in the quarter from 14,2% in the previous quarter.Despite such growth, Mutandiro said the mobile operator was not sitting on its laurels, adding it will continue to add value to our products and give the best to our consumers .Mutandiro said the operator was on a continuous transformational exercise that has seen it revamping its processes. We have complimented our network expansion with customer centricity and introduced packages that are affordable and efficient, he said.