NEW Gate Chapel senior pastor and NewsDay Weekender columnist, Erasmus Makarimayi, has launched a new monthly devotional, New Creation Daily, that carries inspirational, motivating and empowering messages to help Christians understand the message of grace. BY ARTS REPORTERPastor Erasmus MakarimayiThe devotional s editor, Constance Tafirei, said the first edition was published in January under the auspices of New Gate Chapel. New Gate Chapel is a ministry that has heeded the call of God in this dispensation to preach and teach the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the grace of God. It is a vibrant New Testament ministry, she said.Tafirei described the devotional as a lively book which can be used as a handy tool for both believers and non-believers and has grown in readership over the last three months. The reader is ushered into truth that will transform their life. In the three months that it has been in circulation, the devotional has attracted much readership from many quarters, reaching out to diverse cultures, socio-economic and political groups, races and geographical locations, she said.Tafirei said the book provides a platform for evangelism given its potential of reaching out to the unsaved as it was God s desire to have all humanity saved. The unsaved are getting the message of salvation by the word of truth, the grace of God. The truth is availed to all mankind and womankind, she said, adding that it will help the believer to experience the joy of salvation and life free from fear, condemnation and guilt. The book, Tafirei said, would help readers conduct their business, pursue their dreams and build their families confidently with the full awareness and assurance that it was God s desire for them to prosper and succeed. New Creation Daily speaks to the inner being, propelling them (readers) to fulfil their divine assignment and purpose effectively and efficiently, she said, adding that readers would testify to positive changes in their lives. Tafirei said they had started receiving feedback from readers about the truth revealed in the devotional that has helped them to become rooted in the Bible, leaving no room for lies and deception as false doctrines are rebuffed.Plans are underway to increase circulation across the country and beyond borders with several translations in local languages and dialects.