DYNAMOS assistant coach Murape Murape has fallen victim to Zifa s new requirement for coaches, where the association is demanding that all Premier Soccer League (PSL) coaches possess a Caf A licence or better. BY HENRY MHARAFormer Dynamos assistant coach Murape MurapeMurape, who has a Caf C licence, has been replaced by Biggie Zuze, but Dynamos are offering no guarantees to their long-serving midfielder on any new placement.Yesterday, Dynamos and Zuze struck a deal for the former midfielder to rejoin the club as an assistant to coach Lloyd Mutasa.Zuze, who is joining from Triangle where he was assisting David Mandigora, attended the team s training session yesterday. He confirmed he was close to signing a deal. We have agreed on everything and what is left is just signing the contract. All the terms are agreed, but I have told them to put it in black and white. We were supposed to meet with club officials in town, but they are yet to contact me. We are likely to meet tomorrow (today), Zuze said yesterday.Dynamos president Keni Mubaiwa also confirmed they had reached an agreement with the former Monomotapa gaffer to take over from Murape. Zuze is our new assistant. We couldn t continue with Murape because of the Caf club licencing requirement. He is ineligible to coach or assist a PSL team. We asked the coach (Lloyd Mutasa) to look for his assistant and he identified Zuze, and that is why we have offered him a contract. We did not interfere this time around, so Zuze is purely the coach s choice, he said.Mubaiwa added: We don t have a role for Murape at the moment. His qualification only allows him to coach a team in Division Two, so as a club there is nothing we can do. He would have to go back to school and improve on his qualifications. He is our son, and when he gets the qualifications, we will definitely consider him in future. Zifa have said that all PSL head coaches and their assistants are obliged to be in possession of Caf A and local Level 4 (Advanced Level) licences.The move, according to Zifa, is meant to ensure that footballers produced in the country match international standards and ultimately break into competitive leagues.Murape was appointed to the assistant coach position last year to deputise Mutasa, who had been elevated to head coach following the ouster of Paulo Jorge Silva. Murape is not the only high-profile figure that is set to be affected, as Harare City coach Mkhuphali Masuku also possesses a Caf B licence.Harare City, however, have said they will stick with Masuku and will not appoint another coach although it is believed they are targeting Kalisto Pasuwa to take over.Caps United coach Lloyd Chitembwe and his assistant Mark Mathe both had to enrol for a Caf A coaching course this year to try and meet the new requirement. Highlanders assistant coach Amini Soma-Phiri was also among coaches that did their Caf A coaching course in Harare last month.The Caf A licence minimum requirements also apply to all national team coaches.