I REALISE that these days many people have a very vague idea of love. We do not really understand what love is all about, and today I just want to show you this vague idea of love that people are trying to create. I think there is need that we all take time to learn love, so that we can do love in the way of love. Is this the idea of love? Relationships: Kilton MoyoLove makes life beautiful and desirableYou are beating your spouse to show them loveThere are many people, who will abuse their spouses by beating them up and hurting them, but claim they love them. Love does not hurt or seek to hurt. Love is a beautiful thing and will always protect what it loves. I fail to understand some people s concept of love that abuses, rapes, and destroys. That is not love, but something else.Taking your spouse as a prisonerSome people will marry their loved ones, but then imprison them and take away their dignity just like that and turn them into slaves of their passions and fears. Love again does not operate in fear. Have you never seen or heard of people who really turn their spouses into nothing? The spouse cannot even go anywhere alone. They cannot associate with others. They are rubbished and reduced to nothing, but the person claims to be loving them.Being ashamed of your spouseSome spouses are ashamed of their partners. They cannot visit friends with them. They cannot go to public gatherings together. Are you married to someone, who cannot introduce you to their friends and who cannot talk about you to other people? I think that is a serious thing. Love is always proud of what it loves. Love will boast about what it loves. Did you know love cannot hide itself?Cursing your spouse Some spouses will curse their loved ones. Love does not know how to curse. Love blesses because it is a blessing. Just hear the words spoken by spouses against their spouses. Just listen to how some men or women talk about women or men. You can tell that love is hijacked in many places. People who love each other will bless each other and desire the best for each other.Mocking your spouseImagine when you are in love with someone, who is mocking you every day and everywhere. There are some couples, who are known for mocking each other like that. Love does not mock. Love edifies and inspires. Love admires what it loves. Using your spouseSome spouses will use their spouses as their pain killers . I talk to so many couples a day from all over the continent and I hear cries on how they are being used by their spouses just to quench their lust. Many complain about how they are used sexually. There is no love behind the act, but there is just routine and duty. It s a demand and it s just when someone feels like. It is never a love affair, but it depends on who wants what. When sex becomes a want and not a need and a love game it loses its value and purpose in marriage. It is hard to have a spouse, who thinks you have no feelings and they just do not care about your feelings. They care about their own feelings. The same person keeps thinking they love you.You see, most people have this weird idea of love and they confuse a lot of things. Love beloved is beautiful and is a blessing. When you love you are not doing it for yourself, but for the other person. This means you are giving yourself to the other person. Love withheld then becomes abuse. I think there is great need to help many people learn to love or how to love. There are many people, who are lazy to love, but want to be loved. You cannot receive love appropriately if you cannot give it yourself. My challenge to many couples today is to surely learn to love. It is important and very necessary so we can teach the young how to love.Abusing love is abusing life itself. Love makes life beautiful and desirable. Without love life becomes a struggle and pain to many people. Marriage becomes like a curse when spouses fail to love and understand love. Maybe this generation needs to really understand what life is all about. One way of staying fit in your marriage is knowing how to love and what love is all about.Maybe we need to change our idea of love.Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment programme, and is pastor, counsellor and author of Marriage Fitness. Call or whatsapp on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or kilton.citizenafrica@consultant.com