HIGHLANDERS will be looking forward to winning the ZNA Charity Shield for the third time in a row when they clash with bubbling Caps United in this year s final at Barbourfields Stadium this afternoon. BY FORTUNE MBELEElroy AkbayIt will be a good season yardstick for both sides with Highlanders hosting neighbours Bulawayo City in their first 2017 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match, while the champions Caps United will be away to league returnees Shabanie Mine as they start their title defence.Both sides will be missing key players, who have been called up for the Warriors friendly match against Zambia at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow.Highlanders have the trio of Ariel Sibanda, Peter Muduhwa and Prince Dube on national duty, while Caps United travelled to Bulawayo yesterday without Edmore Sibanda, Dennis Dauda, Ronald Chitiyo and Devon Chafa, who have also been called up by Warriors interim coach Norman Mapeza.Highlanders coach Erol Akbay says he watched Caps United draw with Democratic Republic of Congo giants TP Mazembe in the second round leg of the Caf Champions League last week, but he will not be using that game to judge the Green Machine. I saw them on television against TP Mazembe. It was a good result for them, but a very bad game. Maybe there was too much pressure for both sides. Caps United did not necessarily play good football, but it was a good result for them. I know they can play better and they cannot be judged from that game. That game was of too much intensity, Akbay said.He hopes his boys carry on from the semi-final form when they routed FC Platinum 3-0 at Luveve, with striker Roderick Mutuma on song providing two assists for Dube and the other goal coming from Simon Munawa. After a good game with FC Platinum we have to play the final with Caps United. It will be a difficult game for us because we will be missing key players, but it s the same problem for Caps. We will not be able to field our strongest side, but we have to live with it. Although difficult I think it will be an exciting game. We will do everything to win this cup for a third time in a row, Akbay said.Caps United coach Lloyd Chitembwe, basking in the glory of making it to the lucrative group stages of the Caf Champions League, takes aim at Highlanders as he travelled to Bulawayo with Moses Muchenje, Tafadzwa Rusike, Phineas Bamusi, Simba Nhivi and veteran striker Leonard Tsipa among his stars.Caps United go into the match in a better position having already played five competitive matches this season as opposed to Highlanders who have only played one.Winners of the ZNA Charity Shield take home $12 000 with the runners-up getting $8 000.The cheapest ticket for the rest of the ground is $3, $5 for the VIP and $10 for the VVIP.