JOHANNESBURG Aliko Dangote, Africa s richest man, is among those considering counteroffers for PPC Group Ltd that could signal a bidding contest for South Africa s largest cement maker, according to people familiar with the matter. BloombergDangote Cement Plc sees a bid for the Johannesburg-based company as a way to accelerate expansion outside its home market of Nigeria, said the people, who asked not to be named, as the matter is private. PPC will consider any rival offers to the joint approach by Canada s Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd and domestic rival AfriSam Group Pty Ltd and present them to shareholders in early October, one of the people said.PPC shares jumped 2,9% to R6,38 on Friday in Johannesburg, on track for the highest on a closing basis since April 25. That values the company at R10,2 billion ($792 million).LafargeHolcim Ltd, the world s biggest cement maker based in Jona, Switzerland, and Germany s HeidelbergCement AG are also monitoring PPC s situation, the people said. Titan Cement Co. SA of Greece is looking at the South African company, according to one of the people. The cement makers interest was sparked after Toronto-based Fairfax offered to buy R2 billion of PPC s shares and support a merger with AfriSam earlier last week, the people said. The proposal significantly undervalued the business, PPC said at the time.Spokespeople for Dangote, LafargeHolcim, HeidelbergCement, Titan, Fairfax and PPC declined to comment.The future ownership of PPC is up for grabs after merger talks with AfriSam failed for a second time last month following two-and-a-half years of on-off negotiations. Both companies have been struggling with high debt levels, which Fairfax offered to resolve with its unexpected entrance to the saga this week. The Toronto-based company said it would recapitalise AfriSam, enabling it to settle outstanding loans, and buy R2 billion worth of PPC shares at R5,75 each.PPC s current share price of R6,38 suggests investors expect a higher offer to emerge.The Fairfax proposal would give the Canadian company a stake of more than 30% stake in the combined entity, said two of the people. The value of the bid would rise when savings generated by sharing PPC and AfriSam infrastructure are taken into account, they said. The Public Investment Corp, the biggest shareholder in both PPC and AfriSam, would prefer a higher cash component of more than R6 a share, the people said, adding that Fairfax hasn t ruled out increasing its offer.Dangote, who has interests in sugar, flour and packaged food businesses as well as cement, has a net worth of $11,4 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.Dangote would be open to a sale of all or part of its cement operations in Pretoria-based Sephaku Holdings Ltd unit to win regulatory approval for a takeover, two of the people said. Separately, PPC said it had reduced capital expenditure targets for fiscal years 2018 and 2019. The company sees spending of as much as R900 million in year through March 2018, rising to as much as R1 billion the following year, PPC said in a presentation to investors on Friday. The cement maker also said debt would probably fall in the current year.