ZIMBABWE S action junkies and thrill seekers will tomorrow be treated to the eighth instalment in the Fast and the Furious film franchise, at the premiere of The Fate of the Furious at Ster Kinekor cinemas. BY TATIRA ZWINOIRA The much-awaited film will premiere on the same day as it is rolled out in the United States, keeping the local fans part of this international phenomenon.The film (The Fate of the Furious) will be the first major action flick to be released in Hollywood s summer blockbuster season (March to August).Ster Kinekor Zimbabwe marketing manager, Ruzivo Chonyera yesterday told NewsDay that the premiere will have exciting surprises at all their cinemas. The Fate of the Furious is about cars and the car enthusiasts will not be disappointed as all the Cinemas will have cars or motorbikes on site. A large number of Zimbabweans from all walks of life love cars and watching a movie on the day that is being released internationally on the big screen is a must for most, Chonyera said. In 2015, we had an amazing turnout at the Furious 7. Tickets sold out and the movie itself did not disappoint. We are expecting to sell more this time around. Tickets are selling so fast we can barely keep up with the actual numbers. Fast 8, as the film is also known as, follows the events of Furious 7 where Dom played by actor Vin Diesel and his wife Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) have gone on their honeymoon, and the rest of the crew have begun to settle down to a more normal life.But, just when all seems right a mysterious woman (Oscar winner Charlize Theron) convinces Dom to work against the people that he is closest to resulting in the rest of the crew facing challenges. Aiding in the film s storytelling are the signature car chases, action sequences, death defying stunts and fight sequences.Fast 8, comes without one of the film s main stars Paul Walker who tragically died in November 2013 following a fatal car crash. We always strive to bring the latest content as it is released worldwide. This year will be no different we will certainly be screening most of the Hollywood blockbusters, Chonyera said.Some box office analysts say the previous Fast film, Furious 7, owed its staggering $1,51 billion global haul in ticket sales to his death as it was his last performance.