Bumi Hills Arts and Craft Centre was a ray of hope for mostly Tonga villagers, who had an opportunity to showcase their craftsmanship to the world. By Nhau MangiraziThe abandoned Bumi Hills Arts and Craft CentreEstablished in 1995, the project was aimed at economically empowering the rural folk, while also promoting Tonga arts and crafts.The centre, which was established by Nyaminyami Rural District Council, sold beads, dagga pots and grass crafts to mostly tourists, who used to visit the internationally-acclaimed Bumi Hills Hotel.Situated about 300 metres from the hotel, the arts and craft centre was well-furnished with art for visitors from the community, who overworked themselves for classic products.But the centre is now in ruins, 22 years down the line, with buildings collapsing with the hanging poles of the grass-thatched roof burnt by veld fires some few years ago. There is no longer a caretaker for the premises now in thick forest.The place is now an eyesore after the local council abandoned the project, claiming it was now a burden that they could not shoulder for too long. It was a council project aimed at empowering the communities in arts and craftsmanship. The council used to sell the products and remit the funds to the owners monthly, a council worker, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said.Villagers under Chiefs Mola, Nebiri and Negande relied on proceeds from the sale of their artefacts to pay for school fees for their children.As fate had it, the political and economical crisis in late 1990s forced the centre to shut down after only four years in operation throwing hundreds of villagers back into destitution, as it had become a source of livelihood for them. We used to pay fees for our children through funds raised through the sales of artefacts from here. Although the sales were minimal, as there were many members, it was a promising outreach project for us. It was a form of employment, where our art was being recognised internationally by tourists, who would find markets for our products. It is sad that the council resolved to close it, saying it was no longer viable, Petros Kasanga, a local villager under Chief Mola, said.Former council chairman, Washington Moyo, admitted that the local authority had to wean off the project, as it was not its core business and was becoming costly to run. As council, we were being forced to assist communities get their profits, but it was not part of our core business. Our mandate was to see it off, but the communities had no resources to keep it running and this affected its operations. It s unfortunate we could not train them how to run the project on their own, Moyo, a businessman in the Mola area, said.However, the closure has negatively affected many parents, who can no longer afford to send their children to school. Generally, some people blame the Tongas for not valuing education, but without a source of income, where do you expect them to get money to pay school fees? There are no income-generating projects or industries to talk about here, but we need cash to survive. It is pathetic as our source of hope was dashed by the council several years ago, a local teacher, who refused to be named, said. The teacher at Marembera Primary School, who cannot be named for professional reasons, said that the project was inspirational to many locals, who could appreciate how art and culture could be a beneficiary to the community.Newly-appointed Nyaminyami Rural District Council chief executive officer, Tsana Chirau, said she was still to acclimatise herself with projects in the area. I am just new in office and I need time to be abreast on council projects, including pending issues and income generating that the community was benefiting from, she said. The art and craft centre was also a foreign currency generation project and helped boost tourism in the country.