Like all businesses, agribusinesses should be built around a product/service and a niche market. Ideally, more products and services spawn more business models with some models eventually becoming separate business units. When that happens, it becomes easy to assess the viability of each business model. Contrary to some beliefs, in a business model, money is just like salt. Without meat or vegetables, salt is useless. The salt owner should be interested in those with meat, potatoes, tomatoes and other products. On the other hand, while some commodities need salt, some consumers don t need much salt. Confusing a business plan with a business modelMost agribusinesses lack models. They confuse a business plan with a business model yet a plan assists in executing a model. A model is an attempt to turn your innovation into profit or economic value. The following pillars help to characterise a business model without over-simplifying the complexity in agricultural value chains:Some of the fundamental considerations in agribusiness modelsIt should be about capturing everyone. Start with early adopters who can assist you in refining as you go? Do not dream of creating wealth if you are not creating wealth for others. Starting with others builds a sustainable base for your wealth. From early adopters you are able to refine your financial strategy. Most business models have too many messages which end up confusing potential clients. Concentrate on a core message and few benefits.If tobacco farmers who come to the market once a year get preference for cash from banks, what about traders who are in the market throughout the year and drive food markets? That ignorance is counter-productive because it lures many farmers into tobacco, leaving other potentially lucrative commodities. Why don t banks enable traders to also get cash when they need it? That is why traders end up locking their money in the market with their relationships with farmers. They know that once they bank it, the money will be given to external value chain actors who are not interested in agricultural markets.Charles@knowledgetransafrica.com / charles@emkambo.co.zw / info@knowledgetransafrica.com Website: www.emkambo.co.zw / www.knowledgetransafrica.com eMkambo Call Centre: 0771 859000-5/ 0716 331140-5 / 0739 866 343-6