A FRESH storm is brewing in Zanu PF Manicaland province, where female party members have pleaded with First Lady Grace Mugabe to intervene and stop the national women s league s administration secretary, Letina Undenge, from interfering with provincial structures. BY KENNETH NYANGANI Christopher ChingoshoThe league has accused Letina, the wife of Manicaland provincial chairperson, Samuel Undenge, of gate-crashing at provincial executive committee and provincial co-ordinating committee meetings held in Mutare on Friday. We are begging the First Lady to stop Letina Undenge s rowdy behaviour. We are begging her (Grace) to take her (Letina) to work in Harare or elsewhere not here, Manicaland vice-chairperson, Beauty Benge said. What we know, here we invite our national members from the women s league, but she has been calling for meetings and this is not normal. As Manicaland women, we don t tolerate her behaviour, she said. She has been forming parallel structures and we are going towards 2018 elections and she should be stopped and we are also saying no to chairman Samuel Undenge. He should go together with (national political commissar) Saviour Kasukuwere, she saidZanu PF provincial youth member, Kudzi Madhara also criticised Undenge for failing to rein in his wife. This issue of Letina should be discussed at provincial co-ordinating committee meetings. The problems we are facing, as a province, are coming from your wife. God should help because your wife s behaviour is now costing you, he said.Undenge, who sat stone-faced through-out the meeting, later pledged to address the members concerns. I am going to look at all your grievances and the problems are going to be solved, &#8217; he said.The emotional provincial coordinating committee meeting also saw Local Government deputy minister Christopher Chingosho being manhandled by party youths after he allegedly accused national youth leader, Kudzanai Chipanga of decampaigning him in Headlands.Chingosho was rescued by Dangamvura-Chikanga legislator, Esau Mupfumi, before he fled the scene as tempers flared.