A POLICE officer who robbed a Total Service Station in Bulawayo was on Wednesday slapped with a six-year effective jail term after he was convicted of robbery. BY SILAS NKALAAmos Hlori (38), who was stationed at Police Special Tactics Troop Support at Fairbridge in Bulawayo, denied the charge of armed robbery when he appeared before Bulawayo regional magistrate Sibongile Msipa Marondedze.However, after a full trial, the magistrate convicted and sentenced him to 12 years in jail.Six years of the sentence were suspended for five years on condition of good behaviour. In sentencing him, Marondedze said armed robbery was a very serious crime which was now prevalent. In aggravation, this was committed by a person who was a police officer who is mandated to protect the society and is expected to be a law-abiding citizen. The accused was supposed to lead by example to the public by being a law-abiding citizen and arrest those who break the law, the magistrate said.The court heard that the complainant in the matter was a Total Service Station attendant, Munyaradzi Mujajati.It was the State s case that on January 7 this year, Hlori booked out from ZRP Support Unit Fairbridge Armoury an AK-47 rifle serial number 2399 for official use.On February 7, he left his point of duty in Plumtree and visited Bulawayo.The next day at 3am, he went to Total Service Station in Bulawayo city centre armed with his service rifle.Hlori allegedly found Mujajati at work and pointed the gun at him demanding cash. Fearing for his life, the complainant ran into the office at the same time pressing an alarm button.He closed the door and held it from inside to block Hlori from entering. The accused tried to pull the door and open from outside, but failed.He ellegedly cocked the gun and fired one shot into the office. The bullet missed Mujajati and went through the door glass pane and hit the wall inside the office.Mujajati is said to have let go of the door before Hlori entered and continued to demand cash.The court heard that the service station attendant surrendered $158 cash to him. Hlori also took Mujajati s cellphone worth $100 that was on the table.A Fawcett Security response team reacted to the panic button after 10 minutes and was informed about the crime by Mujajati and they reported the matter to the police.The police attended the scene and recovered a spent cartridge and CCTV video footage.The stolen cellphone was traced through network service providers and was found in the possession of Pride Matobela, after which the police traced him and recovered the mobile phone.Hlori was identified through the CCTV footage and the clothing he was wearing when committing the crime were recovered at his home.He was arrested on March 7 at his work place following investigations. The gun he used was also recovered. The total value stolen was $258 and only $100 was recovered.