African Roots music exponent and sculptor Bryn Taurai Mteki, popularly known as Sekurutau on the showbiz circuit, has urged government to support the arts sector for its growth as the nation celebrated 37 years of independence yesterday. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOBryn MtekiThe veteran musician, who has since returned home after spending 16 years in the United States of America and Germany, yesterday told NewsDay that the future of the arts in Zimbabwe lies in the hands of both the artistes and the government. As we celebrate 37 years of independence today (yesterday), I am proud to say that as artistes, we have managed to put Zimbabwean arts on the world map inside 37 years as we exhibited globally working as cultural ambassadors through varies arts sectors, Mteki said. The future of the arts in Zimbabwe lies in the hands of, firstly, we as artistes and then the involvement of all the stakeholders and the government needs to step in since they are the major stakeholders in trying to implement some policies which enable the proper growth of the arts industry. He, however, pointed to the mass production of stone sculptures as the biggest enemy to quality and competitive art and piracy of music as the malpractices that have dampened the accomplishments of the arts sector for the past years.Mteki called for the intervention of the government and the relevant arts stakeholders to address the abuse of artistes by joint owners under the guise of open-air performances. I think the government and all stakeholders must intervene as there is the killing of musicians by so-called promoters or joint owners. It is a crisis where many lives are being destroyed on the open-air performances, he said. Musicians are killing themselves for mere $50 or so as they are allowing to be manipulated by agreeing to play week in week out for revellers for free using the term flat fee. Yes they may have been paid, but you cannot allow people to watch live music for free, as no one will then pay to watch live shows. Meanwhile, Mteki said he is overwhelmed by the response he is getting during his nationwide shows dubbed Back from America Historic Ndakabvakure Tour, claiming it s enough testimony to show that he is still in the game.Under the Back from America Historic Ndakabvakure Tour, Mteki has performed in Manicaland, Mashonaland West and Mashonaland East provinces. He has also performed in Harare at City Sports Bar and is part of the weekly jam sessions at Club Saratoga in Highfield.