A Bulawayo family is grappling to come to terms with the suspicious circumstances surrounding the death of their 15-year-old son, who had been admitted at Parirenyatwa Hospital amid reports that gross negligence could have contributed to the death. BY PHYLLIS MBANJEBrian Mhlanga, who had leukemia, died on March 14 after staff at the referral hospital allegedly dragged their feet in actioning his treatment, which included receiving three pints of blood.Brian s distraught mother, Sikhulile Mahlongwana, is adamant that her son would be alive today had the concerned staff done their part in ensuring that he received the necessary treatment in time.Narrating her ordeal to the NewsDay Weekender, Mahlongwana said she was disappointed by the way her son s case was handled by the nurses and doctors at the institution. We came on referral from Mpilo Central Hospital to see a haematologist (specialist who works on diagnosis and monitoring of patients with disorders of the blood and bone marrow). My son was put on chemotherapy. He started responding well and even his observation chart records confirmed this, she said.However, the teenager started nose bleeding and for two days the condition remained the same. Mahlongwana was told her son needed more platelets (tiny blood cells that help the body form clots to stop bleeding). I was told to buy three pints of blood and I did so. There was a note attached saying that it was urgent, she said.However, what was to follow was a nightmare that the family will find it hard to forget. There were serious delays in getting the blood to Brian, prompting his mother to go to the National Blood Services Zimbabwe (NBSZ) and inquire about the hold up. I went to NBSZ, which is just next door to the hospital. They told me they had the blood and it was ready, but could not get through to C3 ward where my son was admitted (so that hospital staff could come and collect it), Mahlongwana, with raw pain evident in her voice, said.She hurried back to the ward and alerted a nurse on duty of the situation. She (the nurse) was very rude to me and said they would wait for the call from NBSZ. She even said they (NBSZ) should have phoned the next ward, she narrated .Mahlongwana went back to NBSZ now agitated by the lack of urgency which was being displayed by the staff at Parirenyatwa Hospital. It was only after 7pm in the evening that one pint of blood was delivered. I refused to go home when visiting hour had passed until the blood came, she said.Tired and emotionally drained, Mahlongwana eventually, went home only to be awakened by a distressed phone call from her son. He was clearly in pain and said he was now very weak and begged me to come quickly, recalls Mahlongwana.She rushed to the hospital. Her son was in bad shape. The other two pints had not been administered. The nurses said there had been a mix up because the numbers on the tags where not corresponding with their records so the NBSZ could not continue to give him the rest of the blood, she said.What surprised her, however, was the fact the one pint that her son had been given had the same numbers with the other two.Brian told his mother that he had been in such pain throughout the night and had pleaded with the nurses for a pain killer, but none was given as the nurses said they were waiting for the doctor, who would come the following morning at 8am. I could hear his cries from the waiting area. I will never forget how he was wailing, calling for something to ease his pain, she said with a voice laden with emotion.The doctor, allegedly upon insistence from Brian s mother, went to his bed side and asked what was wrong.Brian, a bright Form 3 pupil, passed away that very day without receiving the other two pints of blood. He was buried in Matopos. I m angry because I lost my son. The hospital is a place of recovery, but with such attitudes and negligence how many more are dying, she said.Responding to the matter Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals said they had not received any complaint regarding the matter. However, in the event that Brian Mhlanga s parents have a complaint to make to the hospital, they are free to approach us through our public relations office. The hospital is prepared to discuss their concerns with them, the hospital public relations officer, Linos Dhire said. Dhire said they were always concerned with the loss of any one of their patients. Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals has a robust complaints handling mechanism which is meant to properly and effectively address public concerns with a view to prevent possible recurrences of unfortunate events, he said.The NBSZ on being contacted said they would institute their own investigations. We acknowledge notification from yourselves (NewsDay Weekender) on the incident at Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals. As indicated to you, this is the first time that we are being notified of this issue at executive management level of which we are now looking into, NBSZ public affairs manager, Esther Masundah said.She said feedback would be given according to the communication protocols.Meanwhile, a trustee with a local health watch dog, Citizens Health Watch, Fungisayi Dube said they were concerned about the quality of our health services which compromises our right to health. This issue needs to be investigated further and if in any way there was negligence those responsible should be apprehended, she said.