ZIMTRADE, the country s export promotion body, will facilitate the participation of six export-ready small-to-medium enterprises (SMEs) at this year s edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF). BY MTHANDAZO NYONIRunning under the theme, Harnessing Linkages for Industrial Development, the 58th edition of the ZITF runs from April 25 to 29 in Bulawayo. In a statement on Friday, the body said the SMEs, selected from the clothing and textiles, furniture, engineering as well as processed food sectors, are graduates of its capacity building programme, the Marketing and Branding for International Competitiveness. As the national trade development and promotion organisation, our mandate is to grow the country s value added exports. There is, therefore, a need to foster sustainable business linkages which will lead to increased exports , ZimTrade chief executive officer, Sithembile Pilime, said. Last year, ZimTrade facilitated SMEs to participate in the trade fair and Meprin Founders and Engineers, who were one of the beneficiaries, commended the organisation for continuously capacitating SMEs. We thank ZimTrade for supporting us so that we realise our full potential. Participating under their banner offered our company great exposure as we had an opportunity to engage with numerous customers, who attended the fair. We clinched deals and we are currently pursuing several leads. Our exhibition stand was of international standard and we were proud of our display the company s managing director, Prince Gobvu said.During the trade fair, ZimTrade will conduct demonstrations on how to access and utilise online market analysis tools such as the Trade Map. Export opportunities, which have been identified through market surveys conducted in the region will also be disseminated. The body encouraged companies to visit its stand and get empowered with several techniques on how to venture into exports as well as consolidate their presence, if they are already exporting. ZimTrade s participation theme will be Building Linkages for export growth Namibian President Hage Geingob will officially open the fair.