Local Government deputy minister Christopher Chingosho was yesterday manhandled by marauding Zanu PF youths in Mutare after accusing their national leader, Kudzai Chipanga of de-campaigning him in his Headlands constituency. BY KENNETH NYANGANIChristopher ChingoshoChingosho, who was pushed and shoved, was saved from being assaulted by Dangamvura/Chikanga legislator Esau Mupfumi.He then fled the venue of a drama-filled Manicaland provincial co-ordinating committee meeting, where a vote of no confidence was passed against provincial chairperson, Samuel Undenge for allegedly being a puppet of his wife, Letina.Chingosho, who looked dejected in an interview with NewsDay, said Zanu PF provincial youths members were divided. The party youths in the province are divided. Most of the youths in the provincial executive are Kudzai Chipanga s people. They sacked genuine youths, those who are in support of Chipanga were co-opted, he alleged. I was not surprised by their actions today because the youths are trying to protect people who co-opted them. Kudzi Chipanga is de-campaigning me in my Headlands constituency and that is not good. But Manicaland youth chairperson, Mubuso Chinguno hit back at Chingosho, claiming that they could not watch as their boss was being denigrated by the deputy minister. We could not just stand akimbo and watch as our youth leader was being attacked. He [Chingosho] was lying. That is why youths wanted to beat him, Chinguno said. Chipanga has his own constituency [Makoni West], so why would he de-campaign him in Headlands? Tempers were high at the provincial co-ordinating committee meeting, where party youths and the women s league passed a vote of no- confidence against Undenge for reportedly failing to rein in his wife Letina.The province also joined others which endorsed the ouster of Zanu PF national commissar, Saviour Kasukuwere.Undenge was attacked left, right and centre over his wife s railroading behaviour in the province.Provincial member and war veteran, Guy Mutasa said the Energy minister should restrain his wife. Comrade chairman, you should be firm in controlling your wife. This is the reason why youths and the women s league are complaining, he said.The meeting was briefly stopped as women s league members started singing while denouncing Letina in her presence.Manicaland vice-chairperson, Beauty Benge said Undenge should be fired. We cannot tolerate the behaviour of Letina Undenge. She is forming parallel structures. We want to win the elections. We are recommending that Undenge be relieved of his post, she said.Chinguno said youths in Manicaland wanted President Robert Mugabe to rule for life. We resolved to pass a vote of no-confidence against Undenge because he is failing to control the province. His wife is everywhere and is causing divisions in the party. The 2018 elections are coming and with Undenge as our chairman it will be difficult for the party because the job is bigger than him, he said.The Manicaland provincial executive committee met earlier in the morning and unanimously recommended that Kasukuwere should be sacked from his party and government positions.