Highlanders . . . . . . . 0 FC Platinum . . . . . . . 0 Highlanders win 4-3 in a penalty shootout.BY FORTUNE MBELEHIGHLANDERS set up an Independence Cup final clash against Dynamos tomorrow when they beat FC Platinum in a semi-final tie that had to be decided by a penalty shootout at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday.They converted their spot-kicks through Ralph Matema, Prince Dube, Peter Muduhwa and Allen Gahadzikwa while Simon Munawa missed.Goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda s penalty-saving antics came to the fore once again as he saved Raphael Muduviwa s penalty while substitute Nqobizitha Masuku watched his sail over the bar after William Stima, Elvis Moyo and Agrippa Murimba had converted.But FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza was not amused at referee Nduna Nkosana after his team were denied what looked like a clear penalty in optional time. Highlanders defender Tendai Ndlovu handled the ball inside the box. I don t have much to say. That was a clear penalty. I cannot see our football growing. If you cannot give that penalty which one will you give. I am not happy. My boyes played well but congratulations to Highlanders for progressing to the final. I feel sorry for my boys for losing in such a way. We end up losing our jobs because of such mistakes. Such incidents can cost us our jobs, a dejected Mapeza said.His counterpart Erol Akbay said he could live with winning through the penalty lottery as he missed a number of key players due to injury. I am feeling very good considering that we missed a number of our key players but if we are going to win by penalties I can live with it, Akbay said.It was a game of misses chances in regulation time with Sibanda making a brilliant save in the 25th minute from a Gerald Takwara header.Highlanders Roderick Mutuma shot over the bar in the 39th minute after FC Platinum goalkeeper Francis Tizayi spilled a Munawa cracker.Takwara was the culprit again in the 70th minute blasting the ball over the bar when it looked easier to score.But overally FC Platinum dominated the game with more possession but not getting the goals.Teams: Highlanders: A Sibanda, B Dube, H Moyo, T Ndlovu, P Muduhwa, T Ngulube, P Dube, S Munawa, R Mutuma (R Matema 85 ), B Banda, A Gahadzikwa FC Platinum: F Tizayi, R Muduviwa, G Bello, W Stima, E Moyo, S Shoko, G Takwara, B Amidu (M Mudehwe 78 ), T Chawapiwa, I Wadi (N Masuku 78 ), A Murimba