LOCAL comedians, Clive Chigubu and Learnmore Long John Mwanyenyeka will take part in a three-day comedy extravaganza at the Swaziland International Comedy Festival (SICF) set for April 27 to 29. BY PRECIOUS CHIDAThe festival is being organised by Swaziland Talent Management and events company, Tall Tree Talent in association with Silja Comedy, based in Finland, and partners from other comedy clubs from across the world.The inaugural comedy festival will feature more than 20 local and international comedians from eight different countries performing in multiple shows.Chigubu will headline the show as the host on the opening day, April 27, while Long John will perform on the same night and at the last day of the event.Speaking to NewsDay yesterday, Chigubu said the festival will contribute to the growth of his career. International festivals connect you with other comics, also, it will be my first time there. As a brand that wants to grow and perform in many platforms, it is a good start, he said. Talent agents always attend these events to scout for talent and if they like me, it means more bookings will come my way. The comedian, who has been to Botswana and Malawi for other international festivals, said he was inspired by the Swaziland gig. Their vision is what motivates my delivery, they really want to give platforms to talented comics at a professional level, Chigubu said. This is their first and they are yet to do more, it is always nice to be a part of a new dream. Local comedian, Long John said he was grateful for being invited to showcase his talent at the festival. It is really an honour to be invited to this festival and it is going to be a huge chance for me to up my profile, he said.The festival director, Larry Mhlanga said this was going to be an historicevent for stand-up comedy in Swaziland.Mhlanga said the festival will produce three leading development programmes. The festival will produce three flagship development programmes: Raw comedy, Swaziland s biggest open mic competition, a national comedy competition for high school students and deadly funny indigenous comedy performance that celebrates the unique humour of indigenous language, he said.The festival will be held at House on Fire, the George Hotel and Sibane Hotel, with Chigubu, Sifiso Nene from South Africa and Mduduzi Dlamini from Swaziland as hosts.