SHABANIE MINE approach their third Castle Lager Premier Soccer League duel against Bulawayo City at Maglas Stadium today with spring in their feet following two commendable results in their first two matches. BY MUKUDZEI CHINGWERE/FORTUNE MBELE Mandla MpofuThe Chinda Boys humbled giants Highlanders 1-0 at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday after they had played out a nil-all draw against champions Caps United in a match they could have won with better chance conversion.By yesterday afternoon they were yet to settle for a new head coach after Wilson Mutekede was snatched by Zifa to take the post of technical director.Their squad was assembled by Taku Shariwa, who has since been reassigned to the post of team manager since he is not qualified to take up the coaching post.Shariwa yesterday said it was important for his side to maintain their form to retain their top-flight status at the end of the season. We need to maintain the form so that we will preserve our Premiership status for next season, Shariwa said. So far we are very happy that we started well. The game will be an even contest, Bulawayo City are playing very well, they won against a good team last week. We are also playing at home and we will do our best to get maximum points. Our supporters are always behind us and that support keeps us going. Nelson Maziwisa scored against Highlanders at BF. However, the Chinda Boys could be affected by the uncertainty in their camp over the technical department.Bulawayo City are also confident after beating former champions Chicken Inn 2-1 at Barbourfields last Saturday in their second game following their 2-0 defeat to Highlanders.Coach Mandla Mpofu (pictured) is, however, cautious about Shabanie Mine. It s a big game for us. We are approaching a team that is motivated, but I think we have prepared well, Mpofu said. It is not going to be easy, but our win against Chicken Inn is also a motivator. That match is now history, however, and, have to work hard again in this one. We watched Shabanie beat Highlanders, they are a good side, but we know their strengths and weaknesses. Our aim is to make sure we come out of Maglas with a positive result. Skipper Mkhokheli Dube and Kelvin Madzongwe were on target against Chicken Inn.In the other match today, newcomers Yadah will be looking to maintain their good start when they visit Tsholotsho in Beitbridge. Tsholotsho are still warming up to their new home having moved from Bulawayo.Yadah, who beat ZPC Kariba last week, have set their sights claiming the league title and this trip represents one of the big tests they have to pass if they are to realise their ambition.Castle Lager Premier Soccer League fixtures Today: Shabanie Mine v Bulawayo City (Maglas), Tsholotsho v Yadah (Dulivhadzimo) Tomorrow: Ngezi Platinum Stars v How Mine (Baobab), Chapungu v Hwange (Ascot). Monday: Bantu Rovers v Triangle (Luveve)</strong>