AWARD-winning dancehall singer Winky D has proved that he is not a fly-by-night musician, as his compositions and lyrical prowess have managed to stand the test of time. BY ARTS REPORTERWinky DFor the second time in a row, the Ninja President will again headline the line-up of performers at this year s edition of the country s most prestigious horse racing event, the Castle Tankard set for May 6 at Borrowdale Race Course in Harare.The Gafa hitmaker will share the stage with rising musician Andy Muridzo and dendera ace Sulumani Chimbetu alongside DJ Stavo, who will be on the decks.Apart from the horse race extravaganza and entertainment by the most sought-after musicians, they will be a fashion show were local designers will showcase their latest designs.Organisers of the event, Delta Beverages marketing manager, Patricia Murambinda said it is a must-attend event that will be embedded with a lot of exciting activities. This year s edition of the Castle Tankard event is one not to miss as consumers get an opportunity to emotionally engage with the brand at the Borrowdale Race Course. It is no exaggeration that the Castle Tankard Horse Racing Event remains the most prestigious horse race in Zimbabwe, she said. For the first time, ever consumers of Castle Lager will participate in a promotion named the Castle Tankard Experience and get a chance to win one of 20 Castle Tankard Experience packages valued at $1 000 each for them and their partner. She said the package includes two nights for two at the Meikles Hotel, an Edgar s voucher worth $500, VIP access to the Castle Tankard event and $100 worth of betting coupons. All they must do is to purchase the 375ml pint of Castle Lager and collect four crowns marked underneath P4P and seal these in an entry envelop provided and deposit in redemption boxes in participating outlets, Murambinda said. To add to the excitement the mid-promotion draw for the Pint 4 Pint promotion will be held at the Castle Tankard event on May 6 at the Borrowdale Race Course. The prizes for the mid promotion draw are first prize $5 000, second prize $3 000 and third prize $2 000 and $500 consolation prizes to five winners. She said the Castle Tankard horse race has left a formidable mark to reckon with in the local horse racing fraternity. The event has stood the test of time, and is growing bigger and better every year. It is a race with a history to our country. It is a race which has helped to develop communities around us through employment creation, Murambinda said.