BANTU ROVERS . (0)1 TRIANGLE &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;0BANTU Rovers captain, Bukhosi Sibanda scored with 10 minutes to the final whistle for his side to pick up their first set of points, beating visiting Triangle at Luveve Stadium. BY FORTUNE MBELESibanda exchanged passes with the skilful Obriel Chirinda, who troubled the Triangle defence before the skipper beat goalkeeper, Ronald Mudimu.Despite the youthful Bantu Rovers putting their all to earn the maximum points in the exhilarating Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match played before a disappointing crowd, coach, Methembe Ndlovu was not excited, saying they played better in the first two matches they lost to Chicken Inn and FC Platinum. It was a bit of a clumsy performance. It was not as compact as we would have liked it to be and the shaping was not all that good, he said. But I am happy to get the three points. Winning is not all that important for me. It might be good for the morale of the community out there, but my focus is on development. Triangle wasted a number of chances, particularly in the first half, with Lameck Nhamo being the main culprit, as he was denied on a number occasions by impressive Tshintsha Guluva goalkeeper, Stephen Chimusoro.Triangle coach, Taurai Mangwiro thought they were punished because of those missed opportunities. It s typical of football, he lamented. You fail to punish your opponents and they get their only chance and they make it. We need to start drawing lessons and do justice to our opportunities. But it s early days, although it s sad that we are winless at this juncture. We are lacking the decisive touch towards goal. Triangle have played two draws, one to Chapungu at Ascot and the other against Dynamos at Gibbo.TEAMSBANTU ROVERS: S Chimusoro, T Kumbuyani, D Ndlovu, S Nyahwa, J Nsingo, M Chitambwe, M Dube (G Bharibhari 60 ), L Ndlela, B Sibanda, O Chirinda (B Ncube 85 ), N Sianchali (N Mpofu 89 )TRIANGLE: R Mudimu, R Kawonedra, N Meson, D Dzvinyai, B Douglas (R Mhlanga 79 ), G Zhokinyi, T Sibelo (H Mavundi 54 ), S Alimenda, R Madamombe, T Rukanda (D Courage 65 ), L Nhamo</strong>