The land of the living will require you to determine whether it s God you desire or only what He has to offer. Even in our natural human relationships, there are those who are in the union for material gain. The true picture becomes evident when wealth vanishes. There will be no love lost. It will be clear that the other party was manifestly insensitive to the heart needs of the other. The Gospel of Christ presents the life of God in Christ to its audience. The life of Christ in the believer also avails access to material resources for the physical world we live in. Please also note that the material resources are also available to those who haven t yet received the Gospel of Christ and, therefore, His life. DEVOTION: Erasmus MakarimayiGod gave us physical bodies to function in this world. We, therefore, do not disregard the dominion mandate He gave us. To this end we, therefore, work hard to make this world better and pass it over to the next generation in a better form than we inherited it from our forbearers. Wisdom teaches us in Proverbs 13:22: A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children s children: and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just. We are, therefore, not apologetic for passing over a good inheritance to our children. However as we do so, we are mindful of the truth concerning the next age we will enter. Apostle Paul gives us insight in 1 Timothy 6:7: For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. This leads us to inquire more.Yesteryear there was a notion that attending church was for those who would have failed to make it in life, never mind what making it means. Many would resort to attending church if there was something wrong. If all seemed well, all-night prayer sessions were not necessary, so they assumed. The presentation of the Gospel or is it its misrepresentation brought in the error. There are certain proclamation of Christianity which parade materialism without revealing Christ to followers. Christianity is not a means to life, but life itself. The Gospel of Christ which is the Grace of God is the very life needed now and for eternity. Before Christ, we are dead. Life is only in Christ. The issue is whether you want to make it in this world as a dead person or as a living being. Apostle Paul elaborates in Ephesians 2:1-2: [1] And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins; [2] Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience: Please note that, one can walk upon the face of the earth as a dead person.In this world there are choices. You have to decide which route to follow. Satanism is so rife and without a clear motive, you can fall into it. There are goblins that are said to make one rich. Many evil practices are there to amass wealth. I want to be quick to remind us that not everyone who is rich and has amassed wealth is being supplied by the devil. We covered this last week. This will help us to get off the demonic notion that to be poor is godly and to be rich is evil. As we advance in life, pursuing noble dreams; let us always be mindful to have the right mindset. Please let us acquire and amass more within godly parameters. 1 Timothy 6:6 (Amplified Bible) advises: [And it is, indeed, a source of immense profit, for] godliness accompanied with contentment (that contentment which is a sense of inward sufficiency) is great and abundant gain. No matter how much we get there s always a notch higher. Let us therefore aim for higher with contentment.Let us bring this to a close. Firstly, let us receive the Gospel, that is, the Grace of God and be alive. If we have Christ Jesus in us we have life and life eternal. Once we are alive, the resources of this world will be available to us on the terms of God. We won t serve the devil to become rich, but we commit to worship God who owns all the silver and gold as well as the earth and its fullness. In this way we are certain of success here and the world to come. 1 Timothy 6:12 aptly puts it: Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. We are called to eternal life as well as mastery here and now. Therefore, beloved, do well here while laying hold on eternal life. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. You are going somewhere. All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated. Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632