COMPILED BY WINSTONE ANTONIOKinnahStodart Netball Complex, MbareLOCAL dancehall chanters will converge for Kinnah s 26th birthday bash in Mbare tomorrow. Known as Mr Mbare, Kinnah (real name Maliyakini Saizi) will be joined in the celebrations by over 30 chanters including Soul Jah Love, Dadza D, Killer T, Lady Squanda, Bounty Lisa, Ricky Fire, Cello Culture, Sniper Storm, Freeman, Ras Caleb, Blot, Boom Beto, Guspy Warrior and Platinum Prince. DJ Templeman and Garry B, DJ Cables, DJ Ashaz, Fyah Lynx, Etherton B and Cheeky B will be on the turntables. National Gallery of ZimbabweThe Movement, an exclusive entertainment group that has a unique way of entertaining audiences, with DJs and musicians (saxophonists, percussionists, guitarists, a violinist, keyboardist, gifted poets and comedians) tonight performs at the First Friday Concert at the National Gallery of Zimbabwe in Harare.City Sports BarSize 4 Modelling Agency in partnership with Devine Assignment will tomorrow present Ms and Mr City Sports Bar at the popular watering hole in Harare. Patrons will be entertained by Sani Makhalima, Trevor Dongo, Sarah Dee and Boom Beto at the event.Zimbali GardensVeteran musician Leonard Karikoga Zhakata tonight headlines this year s edition of the Zimbabwe National Army Charities Ball at Zimbali Gardens in Harare. The event is meant to raise funds for charity organisations run by the Zimbabwe National Army catering for disadvantaged members and their dependents. Tomorrow he performs at Tanza Centre in the dormitory town of Chitungwiza. The Mugove hitmaker will be sampling songs off his forthcoming album, Mutungadzese Extended.Jazz 24/7Orchestra Dendera Kings fronted by Sulumani Chimbetu this weekend bids farewell to their fans staging two shows at Jazz 24/7 in Harare tonight before taking their act to Liquid Bar in Norton tomorrow as they prepare to leave for their maiden Canadian tour next week. The tour, dubbed Zimbabwe 37th Independence Celebrations, will see Sulu staging his first performance in Toronto on April 14 before taking his act to The Portuguese Canadian Cultural Society in Edmonton the following night. Dandaro InnSungura musician Peter Young Ingwe Moyo backed by his Utakataka Express tonight serenade revellers at Dandaro Inn, Harare Showgrounds. The son of the late sungura maestro will be sampling some of the new songs off his fourth coming album Mupao Mukonzi.Jongwe CornerThe Seunononga hit-maker Guspy Warrior tonight entertains merrymakers at Jongwe Corner in Hatfield alongside DJ K-oss, DJ Tony Touch and MC Gudo on the turntables.Tsungubvi Beer Hall, GlendaleSungura musician Romeo Gasa backed by his Extra Valembe tomorrow take their act to Glendale with a performance at Tsungubvi Beer Hall. The Simbi Hombe hit maker continues to take his latest album Bho Zvekuti to his fans.Caravan Park, MasvingoAfro-fusion singer and mbira player, Hope Masike will be in Masvingo tomorrow to entertain patrons at Caravan Park. Masike has become a household name with her sweet melodies of the traditional music instrument which she plays with expertise.Midlands Hotel, GweruThe grouping of sungura maestro Alick Macheso and dancehall sensation Seh Calaz appears to be charming promoters, with another gig set for Midlands Hotel in Gweru tomorrow. The Madhawu hitmaker will share the stage with the Mabhanditi Boss at the potentially exciting show for dancehall and sungura music fans. On Sunday, Macheso will be in a stage romance with Lady Storm as they perform at Wedza Spaceman in Glen Norah.Private Lounge, BulawayoRaunchy dancer Beverly Sibanda and her Sexy Angels tonight share the stage with her rival pole dancer Zoey backed by her Red Angels at the adult entertainment joint Private Lounge in Bulawayo. Dj Delroyzone, Blamie Boss and DJ Galaz will be on the decks.Club Connect, BulawayoUrban groover ExQ, who is now a member of Jah Prayzah s Military Touch Movement, tonight goes solo as he takes his act to Bulawayo after almost five years with a performance at Club Connect. At the show, the Bhachura hitmaker who draws a large female following is expected to belt out both old and new songs that have made him a household name.