DYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa will set his Indomitable Lion, Christian Ntouba, on Caps United when the two teams clash in a highly-anticipated Easter Sunday Independence Trophy semi-final at the National Sports Stadium. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAChristian NtoubaMutasa was on cloud nine yesterday after the Cameroonian striker finally regularised his paper work that allows him to start work at DeMbare.The DeMbare gaffer could barely hide his excitement at the prospect of finally lining up one of his pre-season acquisitions as they face their biggest adversaries.He challenged Dynamos fans to throng the National Sports Stadium on Sunday to witness Ntouba making his competitive debut. Everything is under control (the paper work) and we are saying the Dynamos fans should come and see our foreign acquisition play his first competitive match for the team, Mutasa said. I will not say much about him, but I know our fans are eager to see what he brings to the team and I will leave it to them to be the judges. We asked a friend of ours to get us a player with certain attributes and he is the one who linked us to Ntouba and we are quite excited that finally we will be able to use him. Mutasa tried hard not to say much, but his excitement betrayed him. Christian is a team player, we have seen what he can do for Dynamos, that is why we pushed the management to take him on board and we know he will prove himself on the pitch. The fans want to see what he can do, so we will leave it to them to be the judges, Mutasa said.Having lost to Caps United in the Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) Charities Shield semi-finals, Dynamos are desperate to take revenge when the two tussle for a place in Tuesday s final.Mutasa expects another bruising battle when two of the country s top sides clash, but is optimistic that this time his charges will get it right against the Green Machine.He acknowledges that Caps United have built good momentum with their start in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League, where they have collected four points from the first two matches, as well as in the Caf Champions League, where they have qualified for the group stages, but believes this match represents an opportunity for his side to showcase their quality. Dynamos versus Caps United is just what it is. It s always a tough match, nobody wants to lose to the other. It pits Lloyd Mutasa against Lloyd Chitembwe and nobody wants to lose to the other. So it s going to be another tough match for the players and exciting one for the fans. As Dynamos, we lost to Caps in the ZNA Charities Shield match, so we are saying we need to hit back in this one. Caps have had a good start and they are on a roll, but we have to show that we are Dynamos and I am sure we will give it a good fight, Mutasa said.DeMbare are looking to pick up some momentum from the Independence Trophy matches having been subjected to two frustrating results in the league, where they lost against FC Platinum in a match they felt they deserved more before they blew a two-goal lead to settle for a draw against Triangle on Sunday.Caps United, on the other hand, will be looking to continue dominating their enemy, whom they have not lost to since last term.It will be interesting to see how Chitembwe will play around with his squad for this one, whether he will pick his best weaponry.