 Tough times are inevitable in life and in business. But how you compose yourself during those times defines your spirit and future, articulated one of the global business leaders Richard Branson. What a powerful statement. Jackson Brown went further to shed more light by then clarifying that a person with big dreams is more powerful than one with facts . Facts are good. Motivation: STEVE NYAMBEFacts help you get direction. They also assist you to make good life analysis and judgments. Sometimes they can even help guide crucial decisions as you go on in life. Period!However, if you really dig deep into archives of all great inventions of this world, you will soon realise that most of these facts are the ones that could have hindered any invention. Unbelievable? This is so because the usual linear thinking at times yields nothing. It is not creative at all. It is the same type of thinking that is harboured in the minds of many losers and failures. It is static and not dynamic. Always remember there is no victory in such a straight-line thinking approach.Imagine if the Wright brothers had not paid much attention to any of these aviation facts and lived with their linear thinking. What could have happened to the aviation industry because of that? Were we going to have progressive development? Honestly, no.Suppose if all inventors who went on to produce classical works did not give attention to that. Were we also going to benefit from any of their creative genius that was lying dormant in them?Since you are a life crusader you must always remember that, tough times don t last, but tough people do . Tough people are the ones that will make it to victory. Toughness must be part of your game plan.Engaging in the impossible missionSometime in 1920s the Australian government decided to build a bridge. This bridge was to help link north and south Sydney. It was a huge project. As per government policy they advertised. This process would help them get the right top-notch contractor. The response they got was amazing. So a site visit was then arranged for those who had shown interest. After explaining to the contractors what was really expected, it was noted that most contractors felt it could not be done.Very correct indeed. All the standing facts supported that it could not be possible. However, there was one contractor who saw it differently. Analysed it differently. And was prepared to do it differently.Always don t be afraid to do things differently. Never be afraid to break the rules, but only fear to break the law. This contractor was totally convinced that he could do it. He knew nothing would stand in the way. So he came. He was just ready to give it his best shot. Due to his confidence level he never looked at the previously perceived dangers. The two Chinese brush strokesIn life you must never forget that the Chinese use two-brush strokes to write the word crisis . One brush stroke stands for danger, the other for opportunity. In crisis, be aware of the danger, but recognise the opportunity, narrates former American President John F Kennedy. So never forget that every crisis also presents to you with great opportunities.Be optimisticIgnore everything and be optimistic. A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty, advised Winston Churchill. So this great visionary contractor just decided to change the gears and embraced the challenge.Embrace yours. Don t wait too long. Opportunities can fly away like birds. Catch them early. And today is that day.So what did he do? He just devised a simple strategy. He tested all the soils and realised that it was simply possible. lt could be done, was his response. He then assembled a team to do the work. They tested all the construction materials to be used. This was their first battle towards the attainment of the big picture that was ahead.Pessimists vs optimistsSuch is the game of life. You will always find such individuals. Those who will say it can t be done. It&#8217;s impossible. It s a non-starter. While on the other side of the river you will have game changers. Fighters and victors. Those who believe and shout it can be done. Never leave these ones behind. They will be with you up to the end of the game. These are the people who are prepared to dance with you to your victory podium. Remember in most cases it s not how big and frightening your goal is, but how prepared you are to block all pessimists out of your territory. Be prepared to stand alone.During the process some contractors started saying, No man can put a bridge across. Even if a chicken would walk on the bridge to be built, it would sink. And the vibration of even a dog running across the bridge will affect it. The bridge will go down. It can t be done. Do you now realise how impossible it was?Your defining moments must not come from people. It s supposed to be you and you alone.Even after all these disempowering negative words, this contractor went on and constructed the bridge. The bridge stands and it stands today. Such is life. You are unique. You are peculiar. You are a masterpiece. An inspiring melody, that if sung to one who is weary, he will be revived. A great hymn that is yet to be released. Release it now.In the 9 Things Richard Branson says you should do to be successful and happy he says: Don t allow yourself to be judgmental. Look at the world with wide-eyed enthusiasm, believe you are more powerful than the problem that confronts you and dream big. You need the same dose of attitude and belief. Why? Branson continues: The brave may not live forever, but the cautious don t live at all. It can be done. Be blessed.Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach. He can be contacted on +263 784 583 76 or on his email: leadershiptouch@agnail.com