The Gospel of Christ that is the grace of God brought us to new life, the newbirth. We re born again or regenerated. Our new life is brand new and not panel beaten old life. It&#8217;s a whole new life. This means we now have a new genealogy. The new genealogy comes from God in the resurrected life of Christ. Our new life emanates from Christ or concisely it s the life of Christ in the heart of the the believer. We received Christ, who conquered death. By accepting and confessing Him, we were moved from death to life. At salvation we were quickened, that is made alive by the power of the Gospel. DEVOTION: Erasmus MakarimayiThe whole duty of the born again believer is to accept this truth and discover it s benefitsWhat troubled us in the natural genealogy cannot cross over to the new life. This column has repeatedly emphasised that the Gospel of Christ is the grace of God or the good news of Jesus Christ. All this summed up is the man Christ Jesus. The Good News is usually described as too good to be true yet it&#8217;s true. Jesus assures us in John 14:6, Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. The Grace of God releases us to the accomplished or finished works of Jesus Christ. Jesus did everything and all we need is to find out.The whole duty of the born again believer is to accept this truth and discover it s benefits. Reading, studying and meditating on the Bible and praying accordingly unlocks the benefits of salvation.As we soak ourselves in reading, studying and meditating on the Bible, we re transformed by the renewing of the mind. We re, therefore, not tossed around seeking breaking of curses and altars. Believers are wise, discreet and discerning. Christianity is not a call to foolishness, ignorance and stupidity. 2 Corinthians 2:11 teaches us, Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: for we are not ignorant of his devices. We apply what God has ably done for us in Christ. We immerse our faculties in the finished works of Jesus. Apostle Paul s warning guide us. 2 Corinthians 11:3 (New English Translation) records, But I am afraid that just as the serpent deceived Eve by his treachery, your minds may be led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Christ. Please don t be lazy. Read the Bible for yourself. You shouldn t be taken for a ride or made the playground of false apostles, prophets and teachers. The spirit of antichrist is already in the world. When we are born again we are born of incorruptible seed. 1 Peter 1:23 establishes, Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth for ever. That seed is Jesus Christ. We receive in us that living seed. The term seed refers to offspring or children. Jesus Christ is the seed of God or the child of God. The Bible says He is the only begotten Son of God . That seed lives in us and we re in that seed. The incorruptible seed doesn t perish, die, pass away or disappear. It does not cease to exist. Your new birth is permanent. Your purpose, calling and destiny lives on. Jesus tells us what the seed is in Luke 8:11, Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. Jesus emphatically declares in Matthew 24:35, Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. Believers are confident, composed, at peace and rest because of the surety of their eternal redemption. Believers identity in Christ cannot be tampered with. We have everlasting life and our eternal salvation cannot be reversed. The Word of God abides forever. 1 Peter 1:25 reads, But the word of the Lord endureth for ever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. The gospel of Christ, that is the grace of God preaches the unending eternal Word of God. The grace of God is not trying to entice you with fake fading promises. Grace offers permanent promises fulfilled in Christ Jesus. You re not excited with promises of a nonexistent future. Grace offers you eternal security and you shall not be disappointed at the end of the ages. You have not received Christ in vain. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. You&#8217;re going somewhere. All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated. Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632