Harare International Conference CentreTop South African Afro-pop outfit, Mafikizolo tonight performs for their fans in Zimbabwe as part of their 20-year music journey celebrations as they headline the Sendekera, Come Let s Dance concert at Harare International Conference Centre. The award-winning group will share the stage with multi- award winning singer Jah Prayzah, Andy Muridzo, Alexio Kawara, Cindy Munyavi, Sam Dondo and Ngoni Kambarami at the potentially explosive concert. COMPILED BY WINSTONE ANTONIOAlliance Francaise, HarareSongbird Plaxedes Wenyika-Joka, who announced her return to the stage with the release of a new single, Now I Know off her forthcoming album will tonight serenade patrons at Alliance Francaise in Harare. Plaxedes who made her entry into the showbiz in 2002 with her debut album Tisaparadzane became a household name with the album which is made up of love songs, with the title track topping local charts.Pakare Paye Arts CentreRising musician Andy Muridzo continues to horn his skills staging joint performances with seasoned artistes. The Dherira hitmaker tomorrow shares the stage with the grandee of music Oliver Tuku Mtukudzi at the Dzvamu-Tsvamu series pencilled for Pakare Paye Arts Centre in Norton. The concert is meant to give a chance to rising musicians and get the opportunity to get mentorship from the Tozeza Baba hit-maker.University of ZimbabweA bevy of 13 beauties will tomorrow battle for the Miss University of Zimbabwe (UZ) crown at the campus. The sixth edition of the modelling extravaganza will be held under the theme Make a Statement. Apart from the modelling event, entertainment will be provided by dancehall chanters among them Dobba Don and Boom Beto, Bryan K and Tammy.Kingston HouseIn the spirit of strengthening their working relationship, gospel musician Mathias Mhere and Bethen Pasinawako Ngolomi will tomorrow share the stage at the New Album Error Pasi Pezuva concert set for Kingstone House in Harare. Mhere is riding high with his latest 12-track offering, Old Testament, he claims to be a game changer. While Pasinawako Ngolomi is no push over in the gospel genre.The Country ClubHigh flying musician Jah Prayzah tomorrow will be in a stage romance with famous songstress Amara Brown at the One Big Party concert set for The Country Club, located at number 1 Brompton Road in Newlands, Harare. The duo who collaborated on hit song Kure Kure will be supported by Reverb 7 and DJ Stavo.City Sports BarSensational rhumba songbird Lady Eriza Storm, who rose to fame after she featured on Jah Prayzah s popular video titled Eriza on Sunday performs at City Sports Bar along Kaguvi Street in Harare backed by her Swag band. She will share the stage with Blessing and his The Blade band.Club Manake, RuwaSungura kingpin Alick Macheso and his Orchestra Mberikwazvo tonight shares the stage with former Jah Prayzah s member Baba Harare supported by his City Vibration band at Club Manake in Ruwa. Tomorrow the joint hosts Afro-jazz musician Ashton Tapiwa Nyahora, popularly known as Mbeu on the showbiz circuit backed by his Mhodzi Tribes.DZ TravellerTendai Chimombe, the eldest daughter of the late James Chimombe backed by her Huchi band tonight serenade merrymakers at DZ Traveller located in the high density suburb of Dzivaresekwa.Jongwe CornerControversial rapper, Desmond Chideme, popularly known as Stunner on the showbiz circuit tomorrow shares the stage with Trevor Dongo at Jongwe Corner in Hatfield.Chivavaya Night Club, GuruveSungura musician Romeo Gasa backed by his Extra Valembe band tomorrow entertains patrons at Chivavaya Night Club in Guruve. The Simbi Hombe hit-maker is currently taking his last released album Bho Zvekuti to his fans.Club Junior, GokweVeteran musician, Leonard Karikoga Zhakata will tonight share the stage with dancehall artiste Boom Beto as they take turns to entertain merrymakers at Club Junior in Gokwe. DJ Tonny will be rocking it on the turntables. The duo will tomorrow take their act to Gulez Gardens in Kwekwe. At the shows, Zhakata will be sampling songs from his forthcoming album Mutungadzese Extended, while Boom Beto will use the shows to bid farewell to his growing fan base ahead of his maiden South African tour. Amphitheatre, BulawayoSouth African kwaito and rap sensation K.O makes a comeback to Bulawayo after his last dance with the city five years ago with a maiden solo act tomorrow at Amphitheatre in Bulawayo. The Gangsta Love hit-maker will share the stage with dancehall star Winky D backed by his Vigilance Band. The show, themed Best from Both Worlds, will see the two artistes exchange their lyrical prowess from two different genres, kwaito and dancehall.Rainbow Hotel, BulawayoRhumba fans in Bulawayo will be in for a treat tonight as one of the pioneers of rhumba music in the country Diamond Musica, from the Democratic Republic of Congo entertain patrons at Rainbow Hotel in Bulawayo. The group is famed for its smashing hits like Sina Makosa, Amawule and Miniskirt.Club Connect, BulawayoThe ramp is set for the Miss Trade Fair that will see 12 beauties battling for the crown at the pageant to be held at Club Connect in Bulawayo. Patrons will be entertained by wheel spinners DJ Prince Eskhosini and Kead Wekead who will be on the decks.BAC Leisure Centre, BulawayoBAC Leisure Centre in Bulawayo will tomorrow host the Trade Fair shutdown gig to be hosted by Dj Mzoe, with merrymakers buying beverages at pump price after the joint s management reduced the prices.Horizon Bar, BulawayoAn array of artistes among them POY, Mlue Jae Jay and Thabbz will tomorrow take turns to entertain revellers at Horizon Bar in Bulawayo as the joint hosts the Summer Splash bash.