TSHOLOTSHO FC will be hoping to take the confidence gained from their 1-all draw against Caps United into their Castle Lager Premier Soccer League clash against Bulawayo giants Highlanders when the two teams clash at Dulivhdzimo Stadium this afternoon. BY FORTUNE MBELEThe home side s coach Farai Tawachera has not reserved anything special for the Bulawayo giants describing the game as any other match.It will be the first time that Tsholotsho host a team of such high profile since they moved to Beitbridge and besides the three points at stake, they will be targeting a bigger purse in gate-takings.Tawachera yesterday said football was about confidence and they would give Bosso a good game in their new-found home. There is nothing special about this game. It s not a special assignment. Holding Caps United was a confidence booster and that we drew with the champions away from home raises the boys confidence more, Tawachera said. I have a lot of youngsters in my team and football is all about confidence. We have been picking up points and that is good for Tsholotsho. We hope to have a good game against Highlanders. Former Highlanders skipper Felix Chindungwe, who has joined Tsholotsho, could come up against his former paymasters this afternoon if he passes a late fitness test.Tawachera has mixed youth with experience in his side with the likes of Chindungwe, Canaan Nkomo, Nkosana Siwela and Thomas Chimenya some of the experienced players in Tsholotsho s ranks.Tsholotsho, who have narrowly survived relegation from the top-flight league in the last two seasons, have played four draws so far against Hwange, How Mine, Yadah FC and Caps United and are still searching for their first win of the season.Highlanders play their first league match away from Barbourfields Stadium after their away tie to Harare City was postponed to make away for the Independence Trophy competition.Godfrey Makaruse, who played his first game and scored the winner in the 3-2 victory over ZPC Kariba, aggravated a knee injury and coach Erol Akbay has ruled him out of this afternoon s encounter. It s basically the same team that played ZPC Kariba except for Godfrey, who has been struggling with a knee injury. It is not going to be easy against Tsholotsho, a team that is yet to lose this year, but we have to come up with a plan to beat them, Akbay said.Meanwhile, Bantu Rovers, who have suffered three defeats so far and conceded 11 goals in four outings, host Hwange at Luveve this afternoon.Tshintsha Guluva have won one match against Triangle at home and are coming from a 3-0 drubbing by fellow league returnees Black Rhinos, while the coal miners, also with one win away against Chapungu, are also coming from a 1-0 loss to Dynamos at the Colliery last Sunday.