The MDC-T has called on the police to investigate allegations of bribe-taking and State land theft which were revealed when businessman Philip Chiyangwa and Zanu PF national commissar Saviour Kasukuwere sparred in public. BY BLESSED MHLANGAMDC-T spokesperson Obert Gutu said the shocking details should have seen the police and the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (Zacc) springing to their feet and making arrests. We call upon the Parliament of Zimbabwe, police and indeed, Zacc, to immediately institute a thorough investigation into how certain individuals in Zimbabwe have somehow managed to corruptly acquire huge pieces of rural, urban and peri-urban land, he said.Gutu said it was mind-boggling that after Chiyangwa made public allegations that Kasukuwere solicited for a $5 million bribe, no action was taken yet opposition leaders were being summoned to the police station for merely posting their thoughts on Facebook.Kasukuwere accused Chiyangwa of corruptly acquiring vast tracts of land throughout the country.People s Democratic Party spokesperson Jacob Mafume said the spat between Chiyangwa and Kasukuwere only served to show that Zanu PF was a looting committee and the two should both be caged. It s a case of the pot calling the kettle black. The two were as thick as thieves metaphorically and literally who have entered our moral-devoid political terrain, Mafume said. It s clear that between the two they are the biggest land owners and they have the land without paying a cent. What we need is a commission of inquiry with powers because the police will spend years trying to get to the bottom of such levels of looting. It s like Zanu PF has created a looting committee to steal anything and everything. Zanu PF spokesperson Simon Khaya Moyo said there was no evidence of the bribe demanded by Kasukuwere and the party would only act if proof was presented. Did they steal the money from the party? Khaya Moyo queried. We don t know about things that are happening outside the party so bring the evidence then we can act. Otherwise without evidence, how would I know? 