WE are hearing echoes and encountering some bad dreams here in the mountains where we stay. I am talking about a place that is 500km from your place of capture commonly known as Bindura. By Gugugu Magorira,Our ReaderAs you may be aware, I am one of the great chiefs in the land of our fathers born in the stone house next to the Great Enclosure, but currently in the middle of a bloody fight for my chieftainship that was nearly stolen by the comrade next door commonly known as Brandon Mumba.However, the truth is about to be known, but today I am writing with love to you brother Dick and brother Saviour knowing very well your whereabouts as the weather gets hotter and hotter day by day.It never came to my mind or dream that one day I would read some distasteful statements from the many home boys and many home girls that used to be loyal to you. I mean the young people that you had converted into dogs of war to protect your titles.The world has been watching you with sadness as you were driving along the streets of Bindura doing all the dirty things.I want to remind you, Saviour, about the many deals in the Eastern Highlands where you used to operate obviously not as a guerilla.Comrade Saviour, we now have your notes and the people behind you are telling us the stories and all the dirt is now known.As you may be aware that I stay in the caves here near the Lacoste commander, every morning I receive notes from unknown sources about you and your embattled brother from the other mother and other father. Loads of papers are here all telling the untold story, comrades. I didn&#8217;t know that you are one of the locusts around town. A locust flies with pride not knowing that the back is exposed.We hear that those from war, including Bob and the Queen, have all agreed to throw you somewhere under the bus.Remember Chanda of the Gushungo totem who was picked by Saviour&#8217;s brother from Bindura to Chitungwiza after many terror activities? Explain to the world what happened to the comrade and the $6 000 that Dick was supposed to take to the family for funeral assistance. We know that you delivered $500 only. Kusanyara kwacho, hey! We don&#8217;t know why you didn&#8217;t feel ashamed.As someone with the spiritual connection, I am reliably informed that both Saviour and Dickson are staying in the bush looking for spiritual help to save them from a thorough whipping by the comrades.Savy is spending most of his time at traditional healers and spiritual people like me consulting over the mystery and brother Dickson Mafios was spotted in his usual madzibaba regalia and reportedly sleeping in the bush for fear of the unknown. Ahhh of all the people Dickson getting the time to attend Masowe eChishanu, hey! Life changes, comrades.Chaitemura chava kutemurazve gwendo guno.Only that I am staying in a sacred area where we only communicate through dreams and our roaring spirits.When Eddison Zvobgo warned you and the late Border Gezi, you thought he was joking. Young people like Kudzi Chipanga, Saviour, Dickson and others think that Mugabe is a fool yet he has all the files about them.It is the G40 commander herself who has ditched you and it is this First Lady of the party who has seen the light and realised that the train was not going anywhere. I hear that another State House-based group with a different set of fools is being put together for one good reason of identifying the bad apples like you two brothers. To Zanu PF you are now smelling like roasted rats, comrades, and you will definitely be eaten very soon. Carry your cross, comrades, and no one will come close to you for advice because you used to behave like wisemen. We are not surprised at the turn of events given the warnings by the war veterans over this G40 animal.Zanu PF ndeye ropa, guys. Dick, you cannot combine God&#8217;s work with those evil activities.On a parting note, it is with a heavy heart that I inform you of the darkness in front of you despite the leopard skins and white robes that you wear all night.I am smelling jail time in case you are not aware, comrades. I wish Chenjerai Hitler Hunzvi was alive to tell you his story.If you get time, the two of you pay Rugare Gumbo, the former Dare reChimurenga and Zimbabwe People First schemer, a visit and hear the stories about this man we call Bob. I mean Rugare who is now in the political dustbin but until today he is talking about his greatness whilst languishing in the wilderness.Sadly, this animal called G40 is dead forever and will never resurrect again and not only G40, but the whole Zanu PF is dead.Don t ever attempt to smear the media again relying on your positions.Sorry, Dick and Saviour.