FIRST Lady Grace Mugabe met the Zanu PF women s league s top 10 on Tuesday, with insiders claiming the indaba marked the beginning of a series of meetings that could spell doom for those connected to the ruling Zanu PF party s G40 faction. BY RICHARD CHIDZA/KENNETH NYANGANIFirst Lady Grace MugabeThe meeting, which, according to sources, was held at the First Family s Mazowe farm, discussed the ongoing petitions against Zanu PF political commissar, Saviour Kasukuwere, and the women s league s interim secretary for administration, Letina Undenge. A lot of issues were discussed, but at the top was Letina Undenge. She is facing the same accusations that led to the resignations of Eunice Sandi Moyo and Sarah Mahoka. Letina is also accused of being part of Kasukuwere s cabal that was plotting to topple the President (Robert Mugabe), a source close to the issue said.Women s league spokesperson Thokozile Mathuthu confirmed the meeting, but would not be drawn into discussing the agenda. It is true, we met. It was a routine meeting because our constitution mandates us to meet every month. We discussed a lot of things and I am not at liberty to tell you. The issues we discussed are for members of the league and Zanu PF, not the media. We report to the national executive and not the media, she said.Mathuthu would not disclose whether they had discussed Kasukuwere s issue or if they had taken a position as the women s league. He (Kasukuwere) is not a member of the women s league. We discussed a lot of people and issues. The women s league has no position, she said.Regarding Letina, Mathuthu said: There is no provision in the party constitution that Undenge will control proceedings, this is done by the current chairperson. How much money has she (Undenge) used to divide people, maybe you can tell me? I deal with issues that are official. Unless we receive communication through normal channels, I will not comment over our decision, there are normal channels to submit information. Letina is the wife of under-fire Manicaland provincial chairperson, Samuel Undenge, who was also booted out of his position early this week on allegations of working in cahoots with Kasukuwere. Undenge also stands accused of failing to convene regular meetings and allowing his wife to interfere with provincial structures.Contacted for comment yesterday, Letina curtly said: Even if it s my name that is being dragged into the dirt, I will not comment. I am a loyal cadre. 