Music legend, Oliver Tuku Mtukudzi (pictured) will on Saturday be honoured for his illustrious 40-year music career at an exclusive event dubbed Tuku@65, courtesy of BlackTie Management at Waltham Abbey Marriot Hotel in London. BY ARTS REPORTEROliver MutukudziThe honorary gala will be the first part of his 65th birthday celebrations ahead of other several dinners to commemorate this milestone.The music icon is also being celebrated for his contribution and involvement in charitable and humanitarian causes, including his worldwide role as a goodwill ambassador for United Nations Children s Fund.BlackTie Management Event director, Zenzo Ncube said Mtukudzi s fearless and creative spirit has over the years challenged people to rethink certain prejudices and preconceptions about African culture through his music. We are days away from one of the most exclusive events on the Zimbabwean diaspora calendar, and we are honoured to be hosting this special dinner for a cultural icon and music legend, Ncube said. Tuku has received several awards in recognition of his services to the music industry and his dedication in helping the underprivileged and vulnerable. It is only fitting that we celebrate his outstanding achievements. He said the elite dinner will give Tuku fans a unique opportunity to dine with and spend a one-on-one evening interacting with him, his family and friends. It is an intimate event and we have deliberately limited the number of tickets to keep it exclusive and give fans a real chance to speak to him, he said. There will be a question and answer segment with Tuku before he takes to the stage to serenade fans with some classic hits and new material. The Tozeza Baba hit-maker manager, Sam Mataure saluted BlackTie Management for organising the event. We appreciate and are very delighted to be in the United Kingdom to celebrate Tuku s journey in music, his role as a philanthropist and, to begin the first part of his 65th birthday celebrations, Mataure said. Over the years, we have watched Tuku work tirelessly for humanitarian causes, using his musical gift to both serve and help those in need. It is against this backdrop that we look forward to giving back to him what he has given and done so selflessly for many people over the years. Performers at the event will include wordplay poet, Muunya Usuwuna whose poetry depicts the everyday experiences of life.Muunya said he was humbled to be performing at an event of this nature. It was a shock to have been approached to perform for a true music genius, he said. I am nervous but very excited and look forward to sharing what I am most passionate about with Tuku, his family, and expected guests. 