A BEND of the road is not the end of the road. It is so because winners of all the contests were always men of faith. Not just ordinary faith, but faith that was action-driven. They were warriors who were always ready to take the bull by its horns. They were not threatened by fearsome circumstances. They were adventurous. They were people of great faith like the great Abraham of old. Motivation: STEVE NYAMBEThis is the same with the story of four lepers who lived in Israel. One day they sat at the gate entrance as they pondered on their future which was in total darkness. It was a bleak one. Their chances of survival were between slim and nil.So as they were talking, they started asking each other: Why sit here until we die? (2 Kings 7:5). During this candid talk, they agreed to move into the city. Instead of just remaining in that condition. They had stayed in that situation for too long.They knew if they remained at the gate they were going to die. Even if they went into the city, hunger was there. Still they would die. So something had to be done.The starting point: Facing their fearsThe time had come for them to embrace their greatest challenge by facing their fears. And they rose up in the twilight to go into the camp of the Syrians; and when they were come to the uttermost of the camp of the Syrians, behold there was no man there. What had happened? Why had the camp been deserted? Noone was there, the Syrians had run away. Why? The Lord had made the host of the Syrians to hear noise of chariots, and noise of horses, even the noise of a great host; and they said to one another, Lo, the king of Israel had hired against us the king of Hittites, and the king of the Egyptians, to come upon us. The secret about youNever forget these words. The words by one of the American founding fathers and principal authority of the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson, who threw in a brilliant piece of advice when he said: Do you want to know who you are? Don t ask. Act! Action will delineate and define you. Your true self is not what people say you are. Your true self is not the opinions held by people about you. Your true self is not as you are perceived by those who are always against you. Your true self is what is seen when the great giant in you is released through taking action. Just act. Action will produce the real you. Action will turn the tables in your favour. Action is the solution.Planning without executionMany people are excellent in planning. They always present their facts very well. However, there are few who love the labour of execution. It is in execution where you can realise your greatness. Action is what will take you to your destiny. It s your vehicle to carry you forward. It is action that separates champions and amateurs. It brings a huge dividing line between winners and losers.One of the 16, 1972 Andes plane crash survivors, Fernando Parrado once articulated: It s better to decide and make mistakes than not making decisions, because there is always time to go back. Just imagine if these lepers had not decided to act. What was going to be their fate? How was their end story going to be today? The lesson of this story does not end there. It s a true picture of your own life. You might have enjoyed your comfort zone for too long. Your comfortable nest might have been providing all the required wonderful warmth and luxury. It might have made you to rest on your laurels. Making you think you have arrived. No! There is still more you can do in life. How then? Create for yourself a little bit of discomfort in your assumed comfortable environment. Shake yourself from withinAll you may need to achieve your goals is right in you. Shake it. Shake yourself from within. Yes its true, you can do it.Consider this. In one of his posts Strive Masiyiwa once said: I started business when l was 25 years old, with only $75 pooled between myself and a friend. Yes this is the big story behind Econet wireless. Imagine. A mere $75 is what made him to be what he is now. Remember the law of nature. The law of reproduction. Which says, whatever you saw, you reap multiplied.When you look at where he was and where he is today. You will be convinced that you too can do it. This is not reserved for the lucky few. But for you also. I mean you. The one who is reading this.This is life. Start where you are. Take action. You will be surprised by the return on investment from your first step. It always pays huge dividends to take action. It can even change the results. This is it. Let this not escape your mind that: You don t have to be great to start, but you have to start to be great, concluded soldier-cum-motivational speaker Zig Zigler. Start today. Start now. This the right time. It can be done. Be blessed.Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and leadership coach. He can be contacted on +263 784 583 761 or on his email: leadershiptouch@agnail.com