Dynamos . . . . . . (0) 1 Caps United . . . . . . 0 By Kevin MapasureThis is what Dynamos might have prayed hard for and finally they got their wish yesterday as the popular giants beat Caps United to progress to the final of the Independence trophy.Not even the rains could dampen the feisty contest which was played at a frenetic pace entertaining the sizeable crowd that turned up at the National Sports Stadium.The pre-match narrative centred on Dynamos latest foreign acquisition, Christian Ntouba. From the performance he exhibited at the National Sports Stadium yesterday, he would have to work extra hard if he is to endear himself with the hard-to-please DeMbare fans.Ntouba thought he had introduced himself well to the Dynamos fans with a goal, but despite his claims to have touched it last, the match officials gave it to Ocean Mushure.But for the DeMbare faithfuls the scorer s identity may not have been that important, as the popular giants managed to get one over their city rivals Caps United.What is important for the DeMbare family is that they finally managed to get the Caps monkey off their back and more importantly to win a competitive match this season.What they needed was to get a win that would boost their confidence. And as a bonus they have another potential confidence-boosting match when they take on Highlanders in the final of the Independence trophy tomorrow.This was a match that either side could have won as the two giants traded blows from start to finish to provide enthralling entertainment to a rain-drenched but appreciative crowd.Dominic Chungwa was guilty of missing a good scoring opportunity for his side in the second half, while Ronald Pfumbidzai struck the post with a first half penalty.Valentine Musarurwa was shown a red card by referee Thabani Bamala after he planted his studs into Takunda Sadiki s chest in an attempt to clear the ball.It was a match full of drama and excitement and in the end Dynamos solitary strike, which came off a Mushure free kick, on 75 minutes made the difference.Caps United would have felt hard done by the decision to award a free kick after captain of the day Denis Dauda appeared to have made a fair challenge on Ntouba to win the ball.At that point Caps had already been reduced to 10 men; the difference in numbers, though, was hardly visible particularly because the rains had wreaked havoc and the ball was hard to move on the pitch. The match started off at a fast pace as Dynamos searched for an early goal with Quality Kangadze and Denver Mukamba combining well upfront.At the other end Caps United also made good forays threatening to break the deadlock. Tafadzwa Rusike had a well-taken shot crashing against the cross bar, while Devon Chafa s long range effort just cleared the bar. Rusike had another curling shot saved by goalkeeper early in the second half.For Dynamos their problem was the final pass which always let them down after good interchange of passes.Takunda Sadiki turned his marker inside out towards the end of the first half but took too long to find a team mate with Caps United defence recovering.Dynamos plans might have been affected by two first half substitutions which saw Mukamba and Kangadzi out following injuries. Kangadze was replaced by Ntouba on 30 minutes before Mukamba was rested after suffering a hamstring injury two minutes later, with Wisdom Mutasa taking his place.Teams: Dynamos: T Mateyaunga, P Makaita, O Mushure, E Muroiwa, L Zvasiya, T Chipunza, G Saunyama, T Sadiki, D Mukamba (W Mutsa 32 minutes), Q Kangadze (C Ntouba 30 minutes) E Mandiranga Caps United: J Muchambo, V Musarurwa J Jangano, D Duda, R Pfumbidzai, D Chafa ( J Ngodzo 79), C Kapamha, T Rusike, P Bamusi, A Amidu ( J Nguluve 53 ) D Chungwa (Z Bizeki 69)