Triangle . . . . . . . . . . . . .(0) 2 Dynamos . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1) 2DYNAMOS blew a 2-nil lead to settle for a draw in their Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match against Triangle played at Gibbo Stadium yesterday. by KENNETH NYANGANI IN TRIANGLEDynamos head coach Lloyd MutasaThis was a match that Dynamos, following their disappointment in the defeat to FC Platinum last week, had earmarked to show that they are a strong outfit this season, but their failure to secure maximum points, having thrust themselves into such a strong position will only prove that not much has changed since last season.It was another frustrating afternoon for coach Lloyd Mutasa (pictured), who is keen to prove that he can lead DeMbare back to the top.It looked like the Harare giants were going to make a big statement when they surged forward with a goal from new acquisition Quality Kangadzi after just four minutes, having been set up by Emmanuel Mandiranga.When Mandiranga doubled the lead five minutes after the break, it seemed the hosts were dead and buried, but there was a way back for Taurai Mangwiro s men.Lameck Nhamo and Ronald Mudimu got on the score sheet in the 64th and 77th minutes, respectively to ensure the Sugar Sugar Boys picked up another point.Mangwiro praised his players for the dramatic comeback, but he thought his side should have won the match. I want to salute my players for the hard work. They showed character by equalising, but we could have won the match if we had taken all our chances, he said. I am not happy because the (Dynamos) coach failed to control his technical department after the medic invaded the pitch during play. Mutasa was naturally disappointed after seeing his side blow the lead and a chance to claim their first win. It&#8217;s two points dropped for us. I think we should had buried the match in the first half, but we failed to capitalise on our chances, he saidIf there are any positives to draw from that disappointment, it was the performance of striker Kangadzi, who acquitted himself well to score his first goal for the popular Harare side.He could have bagged a brace had he not planted his header wide from an Ocean Mushure cross.He felt had done so when what he thought was his second goal on the stroke of half-time was ruled out for offside. Dynamos shot-stopper, Tonderai Mateyaunga also gave a good account of himself despite conceding two goals.He made a good save from a Tarisai Rukanda shot moments before the breather.