ZIMBABWE Cricket (ZC) managing director Wilfred Mukondiwa has left his position at the organisation and has been replaced by former International Cricket Council (ICC) chief financial officer Faisal Hasnain. BY Kevin Mapasure While Mukondiwa officially steps down from his role on June 14, when his contract expires, Hasnian has since started work at ZC.ZC confirmed Mukondiwa s departure in a statement yesterday, which was first reported by NewsDaySport last year. Zimbabwe Cricket wishes to announce the retirement of its managing director, Wilfred Mukondiwa, who will be succeeded by former International Cricket Council chief financial officer Faisal Hasnain, the statement read. Mukondiwa, who will reach the retirement age of 65 later this month, will effectively step down from his role on June 14, 2017. ZC chairman Tavengwa Mukuhlani said: On behalf of the ZC board and the entire organisation, I would like to acknowledge Mukondiwa s invaluable contributions to the game of cricket, in particular his leadership during a challenging period for both the organisation and the country. While we regret losing Mukondiwa s active leadership and guidance, the board is pleased to appoint Hasnain to the role of managing director. We believe his impressive r sum , experience and desire to succeed equip him well for the challenges ahead, and we are confident that he will build upon the strong foundation that Mr Mukondiwa is leaving. Mukondiwa had been the ZC managing director since 2012, having joined the organisation in 2003 as general manager for human resources and domestic cricket. The former University of Zimbabwe registrar served ZC for a total of 14 years during which he also held the positions of general manager for human resources, board secretary and deputy managing director.His successor will be the Pakistan-born Hasnain, who left his job as the ICC s chief financial officer in December 2016. The 56-year-old finance and management expert was with the ICC for 12 years in two stints. Apart from the United Arab Emirates, he has also worked in England, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.ZC has also employed a new chief financial officer who starts work on May 1. Esther Lupepe, who used to head the finance department, has since left the organisation, which is going through a managerial overhaul.