THE Easter holidays that will culminate in the Independence Day commemorations are upon us and as people celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ, both local and international musicians will be taking to the stage in a series of gigs that have been lined up across the country at different venues. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOSter Kinekor CinemasFilm fanatics tonight will be treated to the eighth instalment in the Fast and the Furious film franchise, at the premiere of The Fate of the Furious at Ster Kinekor cinemas. The much-awaited film will premiere on the same day as it is rolled out in the United States, keeping the local fans part of this international phenomenon. The film will be the first major action flick to be released in Hollywood s summer blockbuster season (March to August).Golden Mile Motel, KwekweIndisputably the high-profile gig of the holiday, will be at Golden Mile Motel in Kwekwe tonight were dancehall and reggae fans will be in for a treat as renowned Jamaican dancehall star Turbulence, Mega Banton and Ghana s music star Episode headline The One Unity Reggae Tour. Tomorrow they take their acts to Bulawayo, with a performance at BAC Leisure Centre before rounding up the tour in Harare with a performance at Glamis Arena on the Independence Day eveSter Kinekor Theatre, Sam Levy s VillageOn Monday several teenagers will be honoured for their outstanding efforts in various disciplines at the inaugural Teen Choice awards set for Ster Kinekor Theatre, Sam Levy s Village in Borrowdale. Finalists selected through a nomination system are high-profile teenagers in business, finance, broadcasting, film and television, radio, arts, sports and academics who include Tanya Muzinda, Daniel Bekker, teen model Yolanda Chimbarami, Joanna Munengwa, Floret Chikomwe and young academic, Maud Chifamba are set to receive awards.Takarangana Night Club, HatcliffBuoyed by the success of his 26th birthday bash celebrations that was attended by more than 5 000 fans last week, award-winning dancehall musician Maliyakini Saizi, popularly known as Kinnah on the showbiz scene will be in stage romance with rhumba sensation Lady Eriza Storm on Sunday, as they will take turns to serenade merrymakers at Takarangana Night Club in Hatcliff. DJ Kigan, DJ Simba and the Tripple Spliffers Family will be on the decks.Zimunhu Bar, EpworthThere is no doubt that Soul Jah Love is the man of the moment on the showbiz as he is making waves with his hit Pamamonya Ipapo becoming a national anthem. The Conquering Family Boss tonight serenades revellers at Zimunhu Bar in Epworth. Tomorrow he will take his act to DZ Traveller.Club Mandisa, MutareRaunchy dancer Beverly Sibanda backed by her Sexy Angels tomorrow are in Mutare for a performance at Club Mandisa. With her record of sterling performances that usually left men who flock her shows drooling, fans are guaranteed of a potentially explosive show.Montclair Hotel, NyangaMbira queen Hope Masike is set to light up the resort town tonight with a spectacular performance at Montclair Hotel. The internationally-acclaimed Masike will return on the stage on Monday to entertain merrymakers expected to throng Jazz 24/7 in the capital for an independence gig.Groove Night Club, BulawayoA star-studded line up is billed to perform at Skaiva s album launch tomorrow at Rainbow Hotel s Groove Night Club in Bulawayo. The Zimbabwe Music Awards (Zima) 2015 best house musician will launch his 14-track debut album Against All Odds after a string of EP projects (extend play). Skaiva had released two tracks from the album prior to the launch Ayeye featuring CiJay which was accompanied by a video and Imali yeqolo which is topping charts on Skyz Metro FM. The launch will bring together artistes across genres, who include Mdue sevan, DJ Sbago, Slimzar WaAfrika, Ryan Synth, DJ Liz, Zulu Da House Manic, Mzoe7, Cal Vin, Tribal therapy, Floppy X, Leeknotic, Selecta Rex and Keitho. Club Connect, BulawayoPatrons will be in for a treat tonight as Club Connect host the Connect Fridays with Prince Eskhosini, Kead and Crazy Black. On Monday the club will celebrate the country s freedom with an Independence Eve Gig with the female patrons getting together on Tuesday for an Independence Bash Divas Night Out to be hosted by females.Cape to CairoBulawayo s king of rendition Ramsey K will tonight share the stage with the Big Ray Band at Cape to Cairo club in the City of Kings.