BULAWAYO S industry capacity has fallen to below 20% and more than 35 000 people have lost their jobs following closure of companies in recent years, the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU), has said. BY MTHANDAZO NYONIZCTU western region chairperson, Ambrose Sibindi, told NewsDay that Bulawayo was facing a plethora of challenges, chief among them, company closures. Bulawayo industry is currently operating at between 15 and 20% of capacity. The worst affected sectors include clothing, transport, textiles and furniture among others. This is because we are still using obsolete machinery, he said.Sibindi said there was need to inject more capital in the industry to resuscitate it.According to analysts, Bulawayo needs a $500 million capital injection.Sibindi said companies should also invest in new technology to cut production costs. The city was also hit hard by company closures. For instance, in the years before 2014 we were talking of 20 000 employees that have lost their jobs, now we are talking of 35 000, he said. Many big companies that formed the backbone of Bulawayo s industry have either closed shop, liquidated or were under judiciary management.These include Merlin, David Whitehead Limited, Textile Mills, Belmore Manufacturers and Ascot Clothing. National Blankets and Security Mills are under judicial management while Cold Storage Company, National Railways of Zimbabwe, Dunlop Zimbabwe and Archer Clothing have down-sized, leaving thousands jobless.He said other companies have relocated to Harare and beyond borders, a development that has left the city a ghost town. Sibindi said there was high number of imported finished goods, especially secondhand clothing, as well as Chinese products. Chinese products are affecting us in a big way because they are being brought in as finished goods. These are serious challenges, he said. Those companies that are still operating have reduced working hours for workers. Employers are staggering workers wages according to grades. Companies are taking about two months trying to clear salaries for employees. This is the reason why we are having high robbery cases, Sibindi said.He said pensioners were not getting their pension as employers were not remitting it. When we are saying government must address these issues we would be talking about such things. We will not be politicking, he said.