 THERE is no royal road to anything. One thing at a time, all the things in succession. That which grows fast, withers rapidly. That which grows slowly, endures, explained Josiah G Holland. Motivation: STEVE NYAMBEIt is not the speed of getting the results when you start something that matters. No. Again it is not the speed of germination when you plant a seed that will excite the farmer. Not at all.Even the speed of rushing into a race. Still will be meaningless if at the end you are to become a loser. All this does not count at all.Never mind. Don t be carried away. One step at a time, you will get there.It may be cloudy today, but who knows what tomorrow holds? So use today wisely. Never should you waste your precious time waiting for the perfect moments. These will never come your way. It is an expression of a higher degree of irrationality to anticipate perfection in an imperfect world. Why not roll your sleeves and face reality? Don&#8217;t waste time. Today is the day.Take that initial small step and you will soon be there. At times it may demand from you to go that extra mile in offering an improved service. It may mean calling that company you have been procrastinating for too long to ask for business. Interestingly, that call may be your only gateway to your success destiny. Someone once said, You may be walking slowly, but you won t be walking backwards. That little effort will yield you better rewards one day.The humble beginning of John PembertonEver heard about John Pemberton? Maybe you might not have heard of the name. It could be a really new name to you. Never mind.It is Pemberton s achievement that will keep you on toes. Really fired, strong and anticipating. It is the reason why I picked a pen and wrote this article. Don t be in a rush, just relax a bit. Cool yourself with the breezes of his greatness. Take your time as we unlock value in his life lessons. Put your thinking cap while I prove to you that you too are also powerful. I want to bring it to light that dynamite always comes in small packages.Pemberton was an American pharmacist. Born on July 8, 1831. Nothing could have been known about him had it not been the success of his famous brand. His tenacity and resilience was the major reason we have Coca-Cola today. So you now know him? He was the founder. He was the man behind the powerful success story of Coca-Cola.It is the way the brand began that touches. It s a motivating and wonderful analogy. It will send shivers of joy down your spine as you read. From the initial stages no one might have thought that this product was going to flourish. How about growing and spreading its wings across the globe?It might have been an uphill task. Such is life. Never wait for tons of approvals before you embark on your passion.The three-legged pot that produced Coca-ColaPemberton started his project in a three-legged pot in his backyard. His main intention was to create a new headache tonic. So he took it to a pharmacy. The pharmacy was not far from his home. There the syrup was mixed with cold tap water. It was then sold to ailing customers for 5 cents. That was the starting point of everything. The rest was soon to be history. Sometimes life calls for people who are crazy. People who are crazy enough to change the world, are the ones who do, observed Rob Siltanen.Many times you miss opportunities. You miss, because you would not have stayed there for a long time. Stay, stay, stay there.Do you know that with proper effort, zeal and energy, anything can be achieved?It is interesting to note that in the first year the Coca-Cola founder sold an average of just nine glasses a day, reported by The Telegraph in one of its instalments. Poor could have been the word to describe the results. Failure in it&#8217;s purest sense.What most people regard as failures are not failures in reality. They are actually future success stories which the pioneers were quick to abort and abandon too early.The Latin mottoDon t be too quick to abandon anything. Remember this Latin motto that goes: Ex nihilo inhibit which means nothing comes from nothing. It is commonly used in Latin as a reminder that hard work is always required in order to achieve anything.Work hard. Hold your vision tightly. Apply effort with great boldness of intent, nothing is impossible. It may be difficult, but not impossible. It may be hard, but still it&#8217;s still possible.It is that tenacity of belief that s lacking in you. Don t let anything limit you. Why would you say the sky is the limit when there are footsteps on the moon?Today as we speak it is known fact that Coca-Cola can sell 1,9 bilion drinks a day. You too can also do it.Be inspired because what you lack in talent can be made up with desire, hustle and giving 110% all the time, said Don Zimmer. It can be done. Be blessed.Steve Nyambe is a motivational speaker and a leadership coach. He can be contacted on +263 784 583 761 or on his email: leadershiptouch@gmail.com.