AFTER the midweek troubles that saw coach Erol Akbay miss two days of training, Highlanders will be hoping to continue from where they left last week when they host Castle Lager Premier Soccer League returnees Shabanie Mine at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow. BY FORTUNE MBELEAkbay missed training on Tuesday and Wednesday.Highlanders and the coach insists that his absence was due the Dutch mentor not feeling well although it is believed he was protesting over financial issues.The Dutchman is cautious of Shabanie Mine and reading into their result last week, where they held Caps United to a nil-all draw. I don t know anything about Shabanie. Every team that I played last year was new to me and Shabanie are also new. All I know is that they played a draw against Caps United and that means they are not a small team, but a team that we need to take seriously, Akbay said. Highlanders face Shabanie without vice-captain Rahman Kutsanzira, who suffered an injury on the toe at training.They will be banking on the combination of strikers Prince Dube and Roderick Mutuma.Shabanie Mine coach Wilson Mutekede, who was appointed Zifa techinical director, is expecting an exciting game. We are bringing brilliant football to Bulawayo. We respect Highlanders; they are a big club with a rich history and very competitive. BF is home of football and that makes it more exciting. Caps United gave us a good reality check of the Premiership last week, Mutekede said.Farai Mupasiri and Dylan Chivandire are some of the experienced players whom the Zvishavane-based side will be looking up to.In another match set for Luveve Stadium today, How Mine host Tsholotsho after losing their first game 1-0 to ZPC Kariba at Nyamhunga last week.Coach Kelvin Kaindu said he did not do well in derbies last week and hopes for an improvement this year. It s unfortunate that we lost a game we dominated. I think we are on the right track. Our performance in local derbies was not good last year and I hope for an improvement, Kaindu said.