Words can create a relationship. The same tongue used to say those words can ruin a relationship. Learning the power of words is one crucial soft skill that most people have to master if they are to excel in life. We use words every day. It s either to ourselves, about our self, against our selves or to others. Our words to ourselves usually become our reality or self-fulfilling prophesies. SUCCESS LIFE: JONAH NYONIMDC-T president Morgan TsvangiraiIf you don t like what you are seeing about your life, you have to change what you are saying. Words have the creative ability. In marriage, people just need to learn to use their tongue nicely and wisely. Remember: It s said: A slip of the foot may injure your body, but a slip of the tongue will injure your bond. And most people have to learn to speak powerfully and positively about themselves. Joel Osteen says: Don t talk about the problem speak about the promise The wise man said: Death and life are in the power of the tongue, And those who love it will eat its fruit (Proverbs 18: 21). A fruit is a by-product of a seed. So if you want to reap mango fruits, you have to saw mango seeds. People do the opposite, they saw thorns with their tongue and expect to reap nice mangoes. Understand the seed of your tongue. Whatever emotional stupor you are, learn to control your words.Israelmore Ayivor pointed out that: Words can be medicines; they can also be poisons. Words can heal; they can also kill &#8230; It all depends on how, when and where they are used and against whom! Let us not abuse our words. It s a misuse of the tongue! And the bible adds that: You are snared by the words of your mouth; You are taken by the words of your mouth (Proverbs 6:2).5 levels of self-talkWe do much of our talk to ourselves. The only person that you spend 24 hours a day and seven days a week with, is you or yourself . And you have to learn to relate well with yourself internally before you touch someone with your words externally. Choose choice and charming words for yourself.Shad Helmstetter introduces us to five levels of self-talk in the book What To Say When You Talk To Your Self. He says: Self-talk is a way to override our past negative programming by erasing or replacing it with conscious, positive directions. It is a practical way to live our lives by active intent rather than by passive acceptance Through self-talk, whether it be positive or negative, conscious or unconscious, we give instructions or directions to our sub-conscious mind. We must learn to talk with ourselves differently. We must paint a proper internal picture.Level 1: Negative acceptanceThis is the lowest of the five levels. This is where you say negative things about yourself and accept it. For example, I can t , I could never do that I just don t know . Remember, your words have energy. They have power and never be loose with your words, particularly to yourself. The sub-conscious mind is always listening and waiting for you to give it an instruction.Level 2: Recognition and need to changeAt this level we recognise the need to change, but not to create a solution to change. For example, we have used words such as, I need to , I ought to or I should .Level 3: Decision to changeIn this level you recognise the need to change, but also make the decision in the present tense as though the change has taken place. For example, you might be a smoker and you are telling your sub-conscious mind what you ought to be, through words such as, I no longer smoke .Level 4: The better youThis is the least used level, but the powerful level of self-talk. This is where there is power talk. I m healthy! I am a winner! I m an elite performer! I m a guru! Level 5: Universal affirmationThis is the divine level. You agree to be One with God . All things are possible to them, that believe. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I m the head and not the tail. 5 positive levels in communicating with othersThe art of communication is one main ingredient that should constantly be learnt or be kept in mind by everyone. Communication should be a healthy channel of exchanging ideas, expertise and experiences. Anthony Robbins (1991:200) in his book Awaken the Giant Within said: Words &#8230; They ve been used to make us laugh and cry. They can wound or heal. They offer us hope or devastation. With words we can make our noblest intentions felt and our deepest desires known .Throughout human history, our greatest leaders and thinkers have used the power of words to transform our emotions, to enlist us in their causes, and to shape the course of destiny. Words can not only create emotions, they arouse people to action. And from our actions flow the results of our lives. If that channel gets clogged, that s when communication break-down creeps in. Most labour-related issues are communication-based problems between the leader and the follower. Followers at times fail the leader merely because the leader, in the first place, had not or does not communicate the model or vision effectively.Silence is at times golden. We only learn that some people are great fools from their level of proficiency or from what is spewed from their mouths. What you speak matters. There are five things that I want you to consider every time you speak:Pleasantness of wordGood words evoke a good response. Harsh words invite a harsh response. In most instances the responses we get emanate from how we frame our words. Take advantage of the potential that words have and use them to soothe and encourage others. Create friendship and a bond using pleasing words.Purity of wordsTruth at any level makes people to trust you. Learn to keep your tongue pure by speaking the truth as a leader, wife or husband. Speaking lies could result in distrust, disrespect and eventually your downfall especially when your cover is blown. To keep your speech or your talk clean, avoid dirty jokes, putting people down, sexist examples, racist illustrations, and offensiveness.Precious wordsA parent has to speak great words to their child. Such as words of encouragement, faith and gratitude. The school teacher has to learn how to use words to their student. A leader has to speak valuable things. Your words should reflect your worth, persona and purpose. Even if you are speaking to a person of a lower grade than you are, speak words of worth, wealth, wit, encouragement, and success into their life.Profitable wordsWords have power. Through the tool of communication, we learn so much. Problems and poverty can pervert the pattern of our mind, but we should not speak at the level of poverty. Learn to speak what you want to have and what you want to achieve in life. Make daily affirmations with your mouth about who you really want to be. Learn not to speak about your harsh situations, rather speak to. This is not going to last. I m coming out stronger! Train your tongue to talk at kingly level.Professional wordsHow do you speak to other people? How do to you speak in a work environment? Some male leaders/managers have themselves to blame particularly from female followers for the disrespect that they receive. They speak disparaging and demeaning words to their female counterparts and expect to be respected as leaders. Leaders need to stick to their bounds of professionalism. This applies to all their dealings with all other members of their staff.Parting Point: Joel Osteen, in his book; I Declare: When you speak the blessing over your spouse, over your children, over your students, or anyone in your life, you are not just using nice words. Those words carry God s supernatural power. They release favour, ability, confidence, and God s goodness in extraordinary ways .