I have said this in the past that marriage is a like a marathon. Anyone entering it has to maintain a certain level of fitness so they are able to run the race to the very end. Relationships: Kilton MoyoThose who win have a certain way of staying fit to negotiate every hurdle until they get to the end. The reason for the high divorce rate in this generation is lack of fitness marked by a lack of radical faith to hold on. It is amazing how fast we want to get into marriage only to exit faster than we got in. This shows how unfit we are mentally, emotionally and spiritually. You see, marriage requires a good balance of these and many more. I am on record as saying marriage does not fail but people fail and only to blame their failure on marriage, a holy and innocent sanctuary. Today I want to show you how many of us compromise on fitness in marriage. I hope this will get couples to introspect so they can recharge appropriately.Being complacentSome of you will do everything within your power to attract a man or woman. You will go out of the ordinary to make them believe you are the right one and their angel and you really become a superstar in loving and romance while you are dating. The moment you marry them, you lower your standards and become ordinary and fall into the deceptive mode because you have won that special over and married them. You think there is no need to keep yourself growing. Many, beloved, have fallen in this trap. Now that you are married, you have let your appearance dwindle. You can no longer keep yourself as attractive as you were when you were chasing after your spouse. Remember that it is how you appeared and kept yourself that made them get attracted to you. Once you become ordinary in this important area, you lose ground. Most of us are losing the battle here. Most of us, women, in particular wait for the men to pay for our appearance and when they do not, you let things fall apart. I think this is deception. You will have to wake up and keep up the standard. Now that you are married, you think you have the freedom to be as moody as you want. There is no more lowering of the eyes like you used to do. There is no more sweet nothing like sweetie and honey . There is no more smiling and showing those romantic teeth. There is no more teasing and tossing. This is deception. You lose your fitness right here beloved, and many of us have lost it. Romance is not for a common attitude. It takes effort and diligence. Many of us are no longer diligent enough in working our appearances, romances, smiles, attitudes and play in marriage. We think that once married, we have become too mature for these. How can you be too mature for the things that make love and marriage? My advice to someone today is to please go back to where you first fell and start again.Being passiveNow that you are married to your angel, you have become so passive and you have abused the angel and now you are seeing an ordinary man or woman in them. The truth of the matter is that they are still the angel you married; you are the one who has climbed down from where you were when you married them. You did not keep up the standard. If you want to behold the angel, stay in the realm of angels. You became so passive and neglected what you were supposed to do. You then fell into the realm of grumbling and magnifying faults. You lose not only your step, but your fitness to judge.Being negativeYou will lose fitness when you lose interest in your spouse. Interest is lost when you become negative about them. Many couples are so negative about their spouses. that they hardly see anything positive or good anymore. What happened? You snoozed and conformed to the patterns of our cultures that see errors in other people. You see, marriage is not a human culture thing. It is a God culture thing and must be maintained at that level. Your duty is to keep your fitness at various levels so you can still enjoy marriage in a world that has become so negative. When you are negative, you give attention to many other things except your spouse. Have you not seen spouses who pay so much attention to friends, things, careers, relatives, pastors, ministry and other secondary things at the expense of their spouses? A negative attitude steals your fitness.How do you maintain fitness? This is where you need coaching and training. At Fruitful Marriages, we specialise in Marriage Fitness Coaching and Training. It is important for you to invest in this so you can be helped and equipped. Follow us online or invite us to your seminars or meetings so we can help you. You are responsible for the welfare and health of your marriage. Do not sit back. Keep the fire burning.Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment programme and is pastor, counselor and author of Marriage Fitness. Call or whatsapp on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or kilton.citizenafrica@consultant.com