National People s Party (NPP) leader Joice Mujuru s spokesperson Gift Nyandoro yesterday addressed the court in crutches and shorts while writhing in pain, after the magistrate sought proof of injury to postpone the matter he was representing. BY DESMOND CHINGARANDENyandoro appeared before magistrate Noel Mupeiwa wearing khaki shorts and on crutches in a case he is representing a Fidelity Printers boss who is accused of fraud and money-laundering involving $2,6 million.Nyandoro, whose right leg was covered in plaster, had on Wednesday sent a lawyer from his firm, Edwin Hamunakwadi, to seek the postponement of the case saying his client, Ronald Madhara, has a constitutional right to be represented by a legal practitioner of his choice.Hamunakwadi had told the court that Nyandoro was wheelchair-bound after he was assaulted by former NPP spokesperson Jealousy Mawarire. The lawyer had asked for postponement of the case, but Mupeiwa insisted that it was not procedural to do that without any evidence of injury or a medical affidavit.However, Nyandoro appeared in person and asked the court to postpone the matter to a later date as he was likely to take sometime off work. I cannot give a definite date for remand because I do not know when I will be fit. I am desired to represent my client and my client also wants me to represent him, but I don t know when I will be fit, Nyandoro said.The State, represented by Michael Reza, opposed the postponement. In the interest of justice, there have to be finality to this matter. If we do not know when you will be fit and then you wanting this matter to be removed from remand? The interests of the accused, complainant and justice demand that this trial be finalised, Reza said. I propose the accused to find another lawyer either from Nyandoro s firm or any of his choice to represent him. But Nyandoro told the court that he was going for a medical review and might as well get a clearance or timeframe to resume work.At the time of Nyandoro s injury, his client Madhara was in the middle of giving evidence in court.Mupeiwa remanded the matter to April 20.Madhara is being jointly charged with Tinashe Mumbengegwi, former senior finance manager at Fidelity Printers, and James Munemo, who is the director of the fourth suspect Swispack Enterprise.The suspects were arrested in 2015 and charged with money-laundering and fraud after they allegedly clandestinely transferred $2,6 million Fidelity funds to a non-existent company before sharing the loot.