THE National Rugby League is set to return to the calendar starting on April 15 following a three-year absence. BY THANDIWE MOYOIt has been rebranded the Intercity League.At a meeting held in Kwekwe on April 1, clubs agreed that the league would kick off while discussions for possible partnerships continue. We believe the revival of the Intercity League competition will go a long way in reviving the fortunes of and rebranding the Zimbabwe Rugby Union (ZRU), and rugby as a whole. We look forward to a successful 2017 season not only on the local front, but also on the international stage where our various teams will be taking part, ZRU vice-president Nody Kanyangarara said.He said the new league will have 11 teams and at the end of the season three will be relegated, but none promoted for the 2018 season. The teams include Mutare Sports Club, Harare Sports Club, Gweru Sports Club, Old Miltonians, Old Hararians, Old Georgians, Old Johannians, Western Panthers, Matabeleland Warriors, Police Defenders and Police Bulldogs. The teams will play each other twice with the top four teams making it through to the semi-finals and the winners to the final, Kanyangarara said.The league will be played over 24 weeks, 22 weeks of round robin matches and the two weeks for the semi-finals and the final. Efforts were made to minimise the breaks during the season and we have restricted the breaks to when the national team is playing at home. At the end of the season there is going to be relegation of the bottom three teams, but we are not going to be promoting any team for the 2018 season, Kanyangarara said.He said the aim of not promoting teams is to improve competitiveness of the league going forward. The relegated teams will take part in the proposed Intercity Division Two League a preserve for stand-alone clubs and this league will be the feeder league for the flagship Intercity League. All teams that have second teams will take part in their respective provincial development leagues. 