This week I visited Johannesburg, where I interviewed John Tibane after he trained MTN staff on strategic leadership. SUCCESS LIFE: JONAH NYONIAfrican leaders are holding on to stations that are powered by coal, while the world is moving into renewable energy Tibane is a speaker, teacher and author of note on various business issues including leadership, strategy, organisational renewal, organisational effectiveness, workforce motivation and cohesion, and service excellence. He has transcended the status of being an expert for hire to being an extraordinary adviser to high-performing individuals and organisations. He has written eight books, including Enlightened Leadership, Do It Because You Can, Be Inspired or Get Expired, and Turbo Think. I (JN) spoke to Tibane s (JT) on strategic leadership and below are excerpts.JN: As a leadership scholar, what is strategic leadership?JT: Strategic leadership is about leading with uncertainty in mind. In other terms, you understand that there is uncertainty; times are not the same, there are forces that often push company executives from a familiar territory of doing business to an unfamiliar one, such as instant competition, constraint, rampant change and customers that are taking charge. So all this will push executives into an unfamiliar territory of doing business and for that reason, you need to be strategic. The word strategy was first a military term. The commander-in-chief would analyse or examine the enemy or opposition in terms of its strengths, weaknesses, tactics, resources and position and then position his soldiers such that the chances of success were higher. Now, in that context, positioning was critical because you can have highly-skilled soldiers, but if they are not well-positioned they can be wiped out by an immature, unskilled group with just bows and arrows, even though they have great guns or better ammunition. So businesspeople have borrowed that term from the military to use it in business, where we have a business strategy. In business, the term strategy is used to mean positioning your company such that the chances of success are higher. Which means you can have skilled people, but if they are not well-positioned, they will still be swept away by the competitor because they are not well positioned. Basically, strategy means positioning your company for success. And, therefore, strategic leadership is leading with that in mind; that you are in a volatile environment, you are in an unfamiliar territory, anything can happen anytime and that is why you need to be strategic. JN: In your book Enlightened Leadership, there are three company categories you mention and the first group is the one in troubled waters. How is strategy necessary to such companies? The second group are those companies that are not in problems at all, but are surrounded by impending danger [they are in the red ocean stage], what would be your advice to leadership of such companies? Thirdly, there are those corporations at peak performance, what should group one and two learn from these and what should peak companies do to stay on top?JT: Strategy is needed for all three companies. As I describe in my book, the first company is the one in trouble. It needs a strategy for it to get out of trouble. I liken such a company to being in an intensive care unit, meaning that they are hanging on by a very tiny tube. If we cut that tube you are dead. So you need a strategy to get out of trouble. In fact, for such companies, strategy is survival.The second group of companies are not in trouble, but they are anticipating trouble. These are not in trouble, but are surrounded by forces that threaten to sweep away their success. In other terms, they can see trouble coming from distance, almost like a cloud that is forming, but there is no flood yet.But you know for sure that once that cloud is fully formed, there is going to be some flooding. You need, therefore, a strategy to be prepared for the threat that is about to come. For the time being things might be okay, but there is impending danger. The third group are companies that are at their best and are performing very well. They also need strategy because strategy will keep them on top. So they need strategy to re-invent themselves. Every company, therefore, by definition needs strategic leadership, whether you are in trouble; anticipate trouble or not in trouble at all. Whether you are up there, or you are Apple or Samsung, for you to stay ahead of your rivals, you also need to be strategic. These companies need to continually re-invent themselves. JN: How is generative learning important in value innovation?JT: Generative learning is a phenomenon that was described by Peter Senge, who wrote the book The Fifth Discipline. He came up with a concept that there are two kinds of learning. The first one is called survival learning and the other is called generative learning. Survival learning is the acquisition of skills and knowledge in order to cope with the present, while generative learning is the acquisition of knowledge and skills in order to create the future. In other words, every company has to embrace what we call generative learning, otherwise it might live in a survival mode.If you are in a survival mode, it means you wait for people to cause trouble and then you must now have to cope with the trouble that other people have caused. But if you are into generative learning, you embrace knowledge and skills so that you can create the future yourself. In other terms, you are ahead of the pack and that is an element of strategic leadership. So, strategic leaders will always encourage their employees to embrace the kind of learning that will bring innovation and creativity in the company.JN: As a trainer and adviser, there is a process that you give to corporates in the formulation of a strategy. Take us through the core fundamentals. JT: The strategic management planning process is a continuous, iterative process that is aimed to keep the company in its entirety, matching to its environments. The strategic management planning process has three legs. These legs are strategic analysis, strategic planning and strategic implementation. Most people talk about strategic planning without having talked about strategic analysis. So these are people who just plan in the air, in the vacuum.We need to analyse first. Analysis takes a forensic insight into the current reality, your immediate environment, your opportunities, your threats, your gaps and it also looks into your environment that you perform in and that includes social issues, political issues, technological issues and legal issues. You need to analyse first. Once you have analysed, you know your rivals, you know your competitors, you know the challenges that are there, then you can now plan. Strategic planning is about looking forward, planning is about how you are going to deal with the challenges that you have revealed through your strategic analysis. But having a plan does not mean you are done, you have to implement. This last leg of the strategic management process is called the strategic implementation consideration. It involves you looking at the processes and practices that must be put in place for your vision to become a reality.What partners must you have? Partners include different kinds of people whether they are alliances, employees, suppliers et cetera. These partners help you to make your strategy a reality. This will also look at things that are necessary for you to go ahead. These include your finances, systems and structures.JN: In your book Enlightened Leadership you say: Today s problems are a result of yesterday s short-sighted solutions. Today s blindness is an ingredient for tomorrow s nightmares. With increasing uncertainty, increasing complexity, ambiguity and disruption, how is strategic leadership helpful for African leadership? JT: What keeps the world turning is actually disruption. Because, by definition, if you do not disrupt things, it means things must stay the same. Even if you look at a simple phenomenon of communication, as far as we can remember, you know that when a king needed to send a message to a king in another land, they would send the message with someone riding on a horse to go some 500 kilometres to drop that message.Now, if we didn t disrupt that, it, therefore, means we will still be stuck with that kind of communication. Slowly, we had all kinds of things, whether it was a landline, cellphones, SMSes, internet, you name all these, it s because we are disrupting these normal ways of doing things. It is only through disruption that we get better and better and better. Now, how should Africans be ready for this? It s the same thing. Right now, for example, there is laxity among African leaders because they are holding on to old ways of doing things.If you look at energy, for example, because it benefits them, they are holding on to stations that are powered by coal, while the world is moving into renewable energy. If we really want to play in the global village, we need to join those who are disrupters. We must be willing to disrupt our very own things we invented rather than holding on to them even though they no longer work.Just because you came up with a system, it doesn t mean that you must maintain the system forever. You need to be willing to disrupt it.If you look at companies like Kodak, for example, which was a leading company when it came to cameras in the past because they were using the film, it was one of the richest companies in the world, which was employing about 40 000 people worldwide and now I just read about it that they are employing about 300 people, the reason being they were holding on to a that kind of film technology, while things have moved on. Nokia was once a world leader in manufacturing and distributing cellphones, it got overtaken by the Samsungs and the Apples, which were not the forerunners by the way. They overtook Nokia because it was holding on to analogue technology when the world was moving into digital technology.It s only now that it is becoming a little smarter. In fact, when you trace back, Nokia itself overtook Motorola, which was actually the first world leader that held on to old things.But while Nokia was holding on to old methods of doing things when the world was moving to smart technology, it got overtaken by Blackberry. But even Blackberry itself held on to all models when people needed smarter tools of exchanging information. So, it s all about disruption. The people that will be leading in the world are the very people that are willing to disrupt things that they themselves invented.Jonah Nyoni is an author, success coach and certified leadership/business trainer. He is the author of Inspiration for Success and Success Within Reach. He can be contacted on &#8211; Tel: 0772 581 918. Email:jonah@classicmail.co.za. Twitter@jonahnyoni.