AWARD-winning dancehall musician Maliyakini Saizi, popularly known as Kinnah, has weaned himself from the crowd. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOKinnahKinnah launched his music career in 2000 and frequently did curtain raising acts for seasoned dancehall artistes for free to perfect his skills.Now affectionately known as Mr Mbare to his legion of fans, he has weaned himself and is now staging his own concerts, attracting big crowds.Kinnah told NewsDay ahead of his 26th birthday bash on Saturday at Mbare Netball Complex, that he had learnt that hard work and determination paid off. During the first days things were not well. But thank God, I have soldiered on to be where I am today and I will keep on working hard to achieve my goals, Kinnah said. I did not let my childhood and upbringing determine who I become in life. I am so humbled. Who could think that a boy from a poor background like me could fly to the United Kingdom for a music show? Born in the mining town of Kadoma in 1991, and raised by a single mother after his father s death, the musician relocated to Harare at 14 to stay with maternal relatives.Inspired by Jamaican artistes like Vibes Kartel, Mavado and Busy Signal, Kinnah is one of the most underrated dancehall voices. My desire is to inspire youths that one s background does not determine where you are headed in life. One has to be strong if he or she is to achieve life goals, the father-of-two said. I feel honoured as the fans have continued to stand by my side since the time I ventured into the industry so I want them to be with me on this special day. Express Entertainment has joined Kinnah s camp Tripple Spliffers to organise the potentially explosive bash, featuring more than 30 upcoming and seasoned chanters.One of the event co-ordinators Blah Ray Zishiri said they were happy with the level of unity shown by dancehall artistes who have agreed to join Mr Mbare at the bash calling for a violence-free gig. As you know that Kinnah in most of his songs preaches peace and unity, we are calling for fans stay away from violence at the bash, he said.Soul Jah Love, Dadza D, Killer T, Lady Squanda, Bounty Lisa, Ricky Fire, Cello Culture, Sniper Storm, Freeman, Ras Caleb, Blot, Boom Beto, Gusyp Warrior and Platinum Prince will be part of the celebrations alongside DJ Templeman and Garry B, DJ Cables, DJ Ashaz, Fyah Lynx, Etherton B and Cheeky B.