THE Infrastructure Development Bank of Zimbabwe (IDBZ) is seeking foreign shareholders as it moves to attain a $250 million equity capital by year end. BY TATIRA ZWINOIRAThe bank&#8217;s capital position is $50 million.The thrust has seen the bank engaging foreign development finance institutions (DFIs) to bolster its capital base.IDBZ CEO, Thomas Sakala told NewsDay on the sidelines of the release of the bank&#8217;s 2016 financial results they would seek foreign shareholding to bolster the capital base from partners such as the Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA). Absolutely, we do not believe you can raise that level of capital from just government and internal sources, so it is important that we reengage with other development institutions. It is also important to recall that historically we had external shareholders when it was the forerunner, Zimbabwe Development Bank and even when it was later transformed into IDBZ, he said. Our strategy anticipates us having some of our former foreign shareholders coming back such as the African Development Bank and some of the European institutions.&#8221;Sakala said IDBZ would be guided by government s policy on indigenisation.&#8220;So, we assume 51% will be government and 49% will be other shareholders whether they are local, private, or international investors,&#8221; he said.The recapitalisation exercise comes as the bank secured $22,5 million last year for energy and housing projects. For the transport, ICT and housing sectors, advances of $5,34 million were made during the year. Our engagements with other DFIs such as DBSA are continuous. We will bring them in on some of the projects that we have a mandate to work on. There is still a gap to fund the Harare Chirundu section. We still have a number of roads, which the ministry of Transport has mandated us to take such as Harare-Nyamapanda, Beitbridge-Bulawayo, Victoria Falls road and bridge, Sakala said.In its financial results for the period, IDBZ s total assets grew by 22% to $159,94 million from $130,69 million recorded in the previous year. This was due to a capital injection of $23 million from shareholders, while the Zimbabwe Asset Management Company took over non-performing loans worth $1,8 million.IDBZ also experienced a 10% growth in revenue to $7,43 million from the previous year s $6,73 million due to an increased presence in money markets and growth in long term infrastructure business.