A MARONDERA couple, who flogged their 18-year-old son to death after accusing him of taking drugs, has been arrested on allegations of murder. BY Jairos SaunyamaJames Mukwirimba (44) and his wife Nancy (40) of Ruvimbo Park in Marondera are accused of fatally flogging their son, Ashley, a lower six student at Nyameni High School, who had collapsed at school following reports that he had taken some unknown illicit drugs.Efforts to get a comment from Mashonaland East Province acting police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Tendai Mwanza were fruitless yesterday.However, this paper is reliably informed that on April 5 at around 6am, Ashley left home for school. It is reported that at around lunchtime, Ashley collapsed in the school hall. His friend took him outside the hall before calling his mother telling her of the incident.His mother then went to the school and found her son still unconscious. While at the school, it is alleged that a source told her that her son had taken some drugs. She then took a taxi to Dombotombo Police Station, where she begged the officer-in-charge to discipline her son. However, the police officer advised her to take him to hospital and return the next day so that they would quiz him.However, Nancy took her son home and called her husband, who was at work in Murewa. Mukwirimba arrived home and found his son now conscious. He quizzed him on the alleged drug taking, but Ashley refused to respond to the questions. In a rage, Mukwirimba allegedly took a switch and flogged his son seven times on the back. His wife also took the switch and flogged Ashley three times.At around midnight, the parents retired to bed, leaving Ashley, who was now complaining of feeling hot, in the dining room. The following morning, Nancy went out of the house and found Ashley lying dead with his face down.She alerted her husband, who then reported the matter to Dombotombo Police Station. The deceased s body was taken to Marondera General Hospital mortuary for post-mortem.Nyameni High School has been in the limelight for students who abuse drugs. Last year, an upper six student had to miss an examination after eating a cake laced with mbanje.