OK Zimbabwe will this year offer customers loyalty points valued at $200 000 as part of the annual OK Grand Challenge Promotion which begins today. BY TATIRA ZWINOIRAForty Nissan NP 300 single cab trucks will be won in the 29th edition of OK Grand Challenge jackpot promotion which was launched at the Borrowdale Racecourse yesterdayThe loyalty programme comes as part of OK Zimbabwe s strategy to hit targets which the retail organisation set for 2017, new chief executive officer Alex Siyavora told NewsDay yesterday at the launch of the 29th edition of the OK Grand Challenge promotion. In this year s promotion we have introduced what we call an amplifier to run alongside the legacy OK Grand Challenge Promotion format. This amplifier picks on the promotion we ran successfully in the third quarter of 2016 dubbed OK Shop Easy Club: Token of Appreciation . It will reward our customers for patronising our outlets during the Grand Challenge as they purchase your brands for their day-to-day needs, Siyavora said. We are seeing a bit of that growth from last year and this year is definitely better than the previous year. The activity level is higher. The challenge we experience will always have to do with product supply because of the difficulties with international settlements. Sometimes you can go for time without certain products, but the supplier base continues to plan, react and move forward. But, yes, that is an interruption to smooth retailing, he said.The OK Grand Challenge runs up to June 2, 2017 with the draw, to be held the following day. The loyalty programme will offer points to customers for shopping at the different OK stores throughout the country.OK Zimbabwe chief operating officer, Albert Katsande said the loyalty programme was a chance to reward shoppers who did not win at the OK Grand Challenge Promotion. You are not winning but you are getting rewarded and get points with the value of up to $200 000 in addition to whatever we are doing. We lead in giving value to the customers in terms of special prices during this period and continuously and all our competitors follow suit, he said.On top of the loyalty programme, the OK Grand Challenge will give 41 vehicles, up from last year s 40. The promotion will also give away $200 000 worth of airtime as part of their prizes.The OK Grand Challenge will feature 200 products from over 50 supplier partners over the seven-week duration of the promotion. Last year s grand challenge was successful. We managed to hit our targets, but every year there are enhancers that get introduced to keep it more interesting and more exciting, Siyavora said.He said certain fundamentals of the challenge would remain because of the promotion s tradition, but that there would definitely be new things and ideas.Siyavora began his tenure this month as CEO of the listed retailer after replacing Willard Zireva who retired in February.