RESERVE Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) deputy governor Charity Dhliwayo yesterday announced that she was retiring from her position at the apex bank, saying she was now putting focus on women financial inclusion. BY MUNESU NYAKUDYACharity DhliwayoDhliwayo said this in the capital at a function aimed at celebrating successful Zimbabwean women with the next generation organised by Women Excel.She said she was retiring after serving RBZ for 36 years I have worked for RBZ for the past 36 years, and for me, today is a very good day because I retire today, Dhliwayo said. In 2013, when the governor of RBZ decided that as the central bank they were going to spearhead financial inclusion, he appointed me as the chairperson of the financial inclusion committee to drive financial inclusion. And since then I have not looked back. I have other areas that were under me, but I think even my colleagues that are sitting here they can attest to the fact that I even forgot that I was just focusing on financial inclusion, because it became my passion, especially women financial inclusion. She added: So as I leave the central bank, I am going to put everything that I have and all the energy that is still in me on women s financial inclusion. Dhliwayo said that the RBZ had taken deliberate measures to make sure that women were involved in issues to do with finance and economy. There is still a big gap when it comes to issues to do with women financial inclusion. Women are not yet fully participating in the economy of our country. We are celebrating several women today but if we look closely, in reality, women are still lagging behind, she said. As RBZ, we have encouraged banks to set up desks to deal with women and their issues such as giving loans, and 13 banks have done that already. Dhliwayo also said there was need to educate women on issues to do with finance and financial inclusion, because a lot of them were unaware. Women do not approach financial institutions because they are not aware, she said. We want to engage the government and institutions so that women can learn about these things from junior school. 