I would love to write about the massage chair that President Robert Mugabe reportedly received from his Cabinet colleagues. But I believe, strongly so, that this must wait. Guest Column: MUTSA MURENJEZimbabwe has pressing demands that far outweigh the aforesaid chair or even the bald head that has become a sensation with our local and international media in the past few days. Dwelling on the massage chair or the President s new hairstyle will be, in my candid opinion, focusing on pernickety. There are serious issues that we can debate and discuss other than the massage chair and the chiskop. Zimbabwe has been in constant search for men and women of honour and integrity. This has been the case during the anti-imperialist struggles and is still the case now in our post-colonial struggles. Zimbabwe has been independent from Great Britain for the past 37 years, but we are still not free ourselves. If that weren t the case, we would be busy with the business of living and not constantly fighting for our freedoms. Mugabe and his ruling Zanu PF party have dashed the hopes, dreams and desires that millions of Zimbabweans had when fighting against a brutal racist regime. Mugabe has replaced our former oppressors and independence to us is meaningless for as long as Mugabe continues to ignore our feelings and rights and treat them as if they are not important. Having been in power for 37 years, Mugabe has managed to deprive us of our fundamental human rights and freedoms and meaningful economic opportunities, while at the same time entrenching corruption and dictatorship in Zimbabwe. For a long time, we have been concerned about the endless divisions within the opposition movement. However, developments in the last few days have resurrected the optimism that we had lost in the opposition. It is quite encouraging that MDC-T leader, Morgan Tsvangirai has joined hands with National People s Party leader, Joice Mujuru and his former lieutenant, Welshman Ncube, of the MDC. This development is, in my opinion, the surest way to unseat the dictator and his ruining party from power. We have seen it happening elsewhere in Africa and The Gambia is the most recent example where this strategy has had effectual results. We expect more political parties to take advantage of this noble initiative. There is nothing that a people united cannot do. United, our strength becomes faith that moves mountains. If we cross the river in a crowd, the crocodile won t have the chance to eat us. A grand coalition is what we need. Mistakes have been made in the past and we can t keep repeating them. After all, a wise person never repeats the same mistake. A people united can never be defeated. Although Mugabe believes that the opposition movement is preparing for what he called a grand defeat , I, however, believe that the success of a coalition isn t determined by the dictator. It is us, the ordinary people, who have the keys to its success. Its success depends on how much faith we have in it and whether we believe it has the needed potential to reverse the gains made by the oppressor and his evil party during the void created by the paralysis of the opposition. As we continue searching for men and women, who will serve Zimbabwe with honour and integrity, I would like to state, without any slightest hesitation, that army involvement in politics is unconstitutional and undemocratic. Commander of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces General Constantino Chiwenga is entitled to his views, but we can t allow him to encourage undemocratic and unconstitutional practices in our country. Zimbabwe is for all Zimbabweans and there is nothing in our Constitution that suggests that the Presidency or any other leadership position is reserved for those with the so-called liberation credentials. For your own information, liberation credentials will not be relevant in the not-so-distant-future and we would, therefore, do well if we focused more on progressive politics rather than threatening our peace and security. Chiwenga s remarks should be treated with the contempt they deserve. Contemporary moral and political philosophy assumes that we all have equal intrinsic moral value. As such, we all matter equally; our lives are equally important. We are all entitled to equal respect and concern simply by virtue of being human, regardless of class, race , sex, religion, nationality, culture, ability, sexual orientation, and so on. This is exactly what our society needs to reflect, a society of equals whose members respect and treat each other equally, and, thus, do not deny each other equal liberties or opportunities. It is, thus, expected that the government will assure us of our equality, liberties and opportunities. People like Chiwenga do not deserve to hold public office. Lest we forget, equality and the inherent need for justice and equality of democratic political rights are quite fundamental to our lives. We are entitled to the right to take part in the government of the country, directly or through freely chosen representatives (The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 21). There can t be social justice without democracy. First, because we have a right to self-determination, we, therefore, have equal rights to partake in the collective decisions about the laws and policies to which we are subject to. Second, because collective decisions affect us, fairness demands equal rights to take part in the decision-making process. Thirdly, it is the responsibility of our government to treat all of us equally, and it is equality of democratic political rights that can make this possible. Fourth, we need a democratic government to afford respect and protection for our equal security and liberty rights, and other human rights. Fifth, a democratic government is responsive to its citizens interests and so is most likely to adopt economic and social policies that are just. We need not only the liberal State, the State must also be democratic. I would like to remind the people that we are living in the Digital Age of the 21st century. Many centuries ago, our ancestors would engage in barter trade to obtain those items they needed but didn t have. That worked well for them and without any incident. However, monetisation of the economy changed everything. We now use money to pay for goods and services and I just don t see how useful it is to pay for these using livestock. I know we are divided as a nation on this development. But I would like to ask: Would it be right to receive your salaries in the form of livestock? If that doesn t make any sense to you, then it surely doesn t make sense that we seek to reverse the progress that we have made from being a primitive to a modern economy. We need progressive ideas for us to keep moving forward. But I am not surprised. We have a 93-year-old man in power! Our search for men and women of honour and integrity remains. Will it be you? May God help Zimbabwe! The struggle continues unabated!