Hwange will look to capitalise on Dynamos sluggish start to the 2017 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season, when the two teams clash at the Colliery tomorrow afternoon. BY Henry MharaPeace MakahaThe coal miners also have not enjoyed the best of starts with a draw and a defeat in their first two matches, but they bounced back to register their first win against Chapungu in their last match.Lloyd Mutsa s DeMbare are still searching for their first win of the season after they lost and drew to FC Platinum and Triangle respectively.The two results have left the Harare giants fretting over another frustrating and barren season, but their success in the Independence Trophy, where they won against Caps United in the semi-final before they claimed the silverware after accounting for Highlanders, albeit via a penalty shootout, has somewhat restored confidence and belief.Hwange coach, Nation Dube, believes Dynamos desperation for their first set of three points provides an opportunity for his side, which is going through a rebuilding exercise after they lost a host of players from last season. They have not started the season well, so they&#8217;re desperate to get a result and we will try to capitalise on that. It&#8217;s a normal game for us, no special preps because we are treating them like any other team, he said. Dube is aware, however, that Dynamos can up their game. We know they can rise to the occasion, especially with a huge crowd that always comes and supports them here, but we have prepared enough and we should be able to get a positive result. Our priority this season is to avoid relegation. We have a new team, which is building up well, but we can&#8217;t look at more than that. While he is looking to avoid the chop, he said there are no title favourites at the moment.&#8220;I can&#8217;t think of any (title favourites) at the moment. Caps looked like the real deal when they eliminated TP Mazembe from the Caf Champions League, but then they were held by Shabanie Mine. Ngezi Platinum are on a roll, but we can t read too much into that. They have not faced a formidable team so far. We will get a clear picture in the second half of the season. DeMbare will be looking to be one of the teams that will be vying for the title come the second half of the season and to be able to get into that bracket they know they have to start picking up maximum points and tomorrow s match presents a good opportunity.Mutasa s side played well in the two matches, but they came out with just a single point to show for their efforts.In both matches they felt they deserved more, but a combination of poor finishing and problems at the back saw them fail to benefit to the fullest.They could have won the match against Triangle after taking a 2-0 lead in the second half, but they failed to hold on and had to settle for a share of the spoils.After picking up some momentum in the Independence Cup, DeMbare will be looking to continue with that in the next match. They still miss star player, Denver Mukamba, who is struggling with a hamstring injury sustained in the match against Caps United.But in Quality Kangadze and Emmanuel Mandiranga in attack, they know they have two players that can give them the cutting edge upfront.Their Cameroonian import, Christian Ntouba has been far from convincing so far and if given the nod in tomorrow s match he will be looking to showcase his talents. Peace Makaha and former Aces Youth Academy product, Emmanuel Mandiranga have been the game-changers for DeMbare, so far this term.Hwange will not be easy, however, in that considering they lost their last home match they will be looking to get it right this time.They come in as the underdogs and are under no pressure.