HIGHLANDERS Football Club were by yesterday making frantic efforts to register foreign strikers Yves Ebabali and Tambwe Kalunga with the Premier Soccer League (PSL) in readiness for the Independence Cup semi-final against FC Platinum at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday. BY FORTUNE MBELEElroy AkbayActing-chairman Modern Ngwenya yesterday confirmed the strikers from the Democratic Republic of Congo had since received their work permits and coach Erol Akbay said one of them could feature against FC Platinum. We are looking forward to having Kalunga and Ebabali available for the weekend. We are working flat out to have them registered before the weekend. Their work permits are out and what we are now waiting for is the PSL registration which is in progress for the two players, Ngwenya said.Akbay said he would not make wholesale changes to the squad even if Ebabali and Kalunga are cleared to play on Sunday. One of them is a winger (Ebabali) and the other one plays behind the strikers. For me what it means is we might use the left-winger because we sometimes play 4-3-3 or 4-4-2 formations. Besides he will give me more options upfront which is what we have been missing. We want more options upfront this year so that we can change our style of football, Akbay said.Ebabali might come in handy in the absence of injured Gabriel Nyoni to bolster the Highlanders strike force of Roderick Mutuma and Prince Dube.Highlanders go into the game on the back of a 1-0 defeat to Shabanie Mine in a league match at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday.Bosso clashed with FC Platinum in the ZNA Charities Shield semi-final and won 3-0 to progress to the final which they lost to Caps United.FC Platinum are motivated by their wins in the first two league matches and will be looking to carry through that momentum. Caps United take on Dynamos in the other semi-final on Sunday at the National Sports StadiumMeanwhile, Zifa and the PSL have cleared the air over the scheduling of the Bosso-FC Platinum match.Zifa acting general secretary Joseph Mamutse confirmed the semi-final is on Sunday. The correspondence received by Highlanders that the matches were on Saturday was an error that has since been sorted. The semi-finals of the Independence Cup will be played on Sunday, Mamutse said.