LEADING financial institution NMB Bank will be sponsoring day three of the forthcoming Harare International Festival of the Arts (Hifa), set to run from May 2 to 7 under the theme Hifa 2017: Staging an Intervention. BY ARTS REPORTERSpeaking on NMB Bank s sponsorship of the festival on May 4, the institution s chief finance officer, Benson Ndachena said their partnership with Hifa was important for local, regional and international development of the arts. The high standards of performance, for which it (Hifa) has become well-known, provide opportunities, not simply for members of the public to attend some stunning international performances, but for local artistes to demonstrate and further develop their talents, he said. The festival adds value to the arts industry in Harare and Zimbabwe. We hope this partnership between local and foreign performers and between corporates such as NMB and the Hifa organisers will continue. The festival s associate executive director, Tafadzwa Simba praised NMB Bank and other sponsors for the support they were providing. Support from valuable corporate partners such as NMB Bank assists the festival in achieving its goals, the primary one being to enact social interventions through art and culture in order to contribute positively to society, he said. Such interventions have a practical impact on Zimbabweans. For instance, at the last festival, Hifa was a source of employment for 1 041 Zimbabwean artists. Hifa is essentially an opportunity to show what Zimbabwe can be. In helping to stage it, our corporate partners are doing the same. Some of the international and regional stars set to perform on the NMB Bank entertainment-packed day include South African ensemble, Baroque 2000, British guitarist and percussionist, Will McNicol and Luke Selby, and Italian jazz vocalist, Amanda e la Banda.Also billed to perform on that day on different stages are Cameroonian Afro-folk star, Kareyce Fotso and South African comedian, Carvin Goldstone, who will share the stage with some local performers.There are a number of plays, including Amsterdam, which is billed as a high powered British production of love and lust, being staged at the Reps Theatre, Reps Theatre Upstairs and other venues. Also to be featured on NMB Bank day is Japanese pop music.