Zimbabwe Cricket (ZC) has slashed salaries of its employees by between 10 and 30% as the organisation bids to halve its $6 million a year wage bill. BY Kevin Mapasure Zimbabwe Cricket board chairperson Tavengwa Mukuhlani (left) and managing director Wilfred MukondiwaThe organisation has been using two-thirds of its $9 million per year allocation from the International Cricket Council (ICC) on salaries and both the board and management have sought to correct that.In the latest cuts, players are not affected as only management and support staff of the organisation will have their salaries adjusted.ZC board chairman Tavengwa Mukuhlani yesterday confirmed to NewsDaySport that the organisation would be effecting another salary cut. Management recommended to the board that we reduce salaries by between 10 and 30%, Mukuhlani said. We had a budget deficit of $2,9 million, so the board said that there would be no more borrowing. We can t continue to borrow to pay salaries, that is not sustainable. So since the board said there would be no more borrowing, management decided to come up with different measures and adjustments and salary cuts is one of them. The players will not be affected. ZC has been making adjustments over the period and the bill, which stood at $7,2 million per year, was reduced to $6 million after some employees were laid off while others had their salaries reduced. The bill has been reduced after we laid off people and made some adjustments. But it has to go down further, Mukuhlani added.While only $3 million of the ICC allocation was reserved for development, domestic and international cricket, ZC wants to see the figure doubled while that of the salaries goes down to around $3 million.Those who earn $500 or less will not be affected by the adjustment, but the top management, which is the highest paid group, faces a 30% cut.Last year, ZC embarked on a streamlining exercise where some of the employees were not offered new contracts once their deals had expired.Those that were offered new contracts had remuneration reduced.On the other hand, the organisation also changed the contracts system for players where more players signed contracts that guaranteed them monthly income.