Title: Own Your Image Author: Fungai Mtisi Publisher: Media Essentials (2016) ISBN: 978-07974-7562-5The modern world can be a cruel place in which only the strong survive be it on the corporate stage or even in the private spaces of life. Such is the nature of a world in which the dogma of image and appearances is made to count for something, if not everything. And this is the gospel that Fungai Mtisi, is preaching through her book, Own Your Image (2016). REVIEWED BY PHILLIP CHIDAVAENZIFungai MtisiIn the last few years, grooming and etiquette has developed into a multi-billion dollar industry, raking in staggering profits for its fundis. While the message first took hold in the West, it has increasingly penetrated the developing world, and Zimbabwe has not been left behind in this new gold rush of sorts, alongside the emergence of the motivation genre of literature.But, as Mtisi argues in her book, claiming that grooming and etiquette is a new trend in Zimbabwe is not being generous with the truth, because this has been on since time immemorial, although what was lacking was the acknowledgements.She shares details of how her father, a soldier in the army in the 1970s, discovered the power of personal presentation (pp8). She explains the significance of etiquette and grooming in the barracks, which is presumed to have a direct implication of success within the army. Mtisi presents grooming and etiquette as significant contributors to climbing the corporate ladder, coming as it does with immense benefits such as having a cutting edge over the competition, presenting a good image, creating positive first impressions and impressing the people that matter within your professional and even personal circles.Mtisi further challenges businesses to go back to the golden era when the customer was king, as the way a corporate treats its clients would have an overall bearing on how it is perceived and, consequently, the business it will attract. Against this backdrop, image becomes important. Grooming and etiquette often speaks to the intimate spaces of life, and this is what Mtisi deals with in the book, intricately discussing sensitive matters around table manners (both at home and in a restaurant), dress sense, manner of conversation, body language, shopping, customer service and time management. In more ways than one, this book could be a wake-up call, confronting many of our beliefs and perceptions.With significant endorsements from Standard Assiciation of Zimbabwe director general, Eve Gadzikwa, women empowerment guru, Mellany Msengezi Mariri, life coach and entrepreneur, Rabison Shumba, as well as Toastmasters International regional advisor (2016-2017) Aletta Rochat, the book is a worthy investment for those ready to revamp their image.The book will help embed soft skills into professional and even informal businesspeople as a way of pursuing that cutting edge over the competition, which is not always too far behind.In an era when almost every motivational speaker is writing a book, it becomes essential to use a personal touch in one s approach to writing a book of this nature, even sharing bits of insights into the author s own life and some of her experiences with the issues she s dealing with in the book. This enables the reader to identify with the subject and have more confidence in the author. For instance, on page 21, Mtisi relates the story of two young Americans, who unsuccessfully tried to secure, $50 000 support from an online executive for a charity surfing project because they were dressed for the office. Working on the assumption that Mtisi s readership is largely Zimbabwean (of course not regarding the fact that there could also be external readers), a synopsis from closer home, perhaps her own experience, would have easily hit home. I must say one of the major handicaps in books of this nature written by Zimbabweans has been that much of the ideas and examples shared are not personal or lived experiences of the writers, but shoplifted from elsewhere, largely from Google, which makes them appear as if they are meant for someone else rather than the targeted reader. The book has an impressive, luring cover that appears to capture the essence of the message conveyed. Quite clearly, the author knew exactly what she wanted her book to communicate, from the moment the potential reader looks at the front cover and begins digging inside.Perhaps it is the design inside that leaves a lot to be desired, from the font choice through to the layout. Established publishers are particular when it comes to font choices and layout because these things ultimately contribute to the aesthetics around the book (looking at things like typeface and the typesetting). For instance, it is common knowledge that you don t begin the first page of the first chapter of a book on an even, but odd, page. Sadly, this is a very common trend in increasingly self-published books that are rarely subjected to the editing rigours of the traditional, discerning publishing house.But Mtisi must be commended for her bold effort in releasing this timely book, which is a worthy investment.Feedback: pchidavaenzi@newsday.co.zw