HARARE City says they are unfazed by Caps United s growing reputation and has warned the Green Machine of a tough afternoon when the two city rivals face off in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. BY HENRY MHARAHardlife ZvirekwiCaps United are going into the match on the backdrop of Caf Champions League group stage qualification, and although they were held to a goalless draw by league returnees Shabanie Mine in their season opener last weekend, they will start as favourites to win this match.The reigning champions completed a double over City last season, and their home record in the league is also virtuous, where they went unbeaten last season, a form that helped them to win the title.However, Harare City coach Mike Madzivanyika, who was promoted to take over after the demotion of Mkhuphali Masuku, is not intimidated by all those statistics, vowing his side would cause an upset. They have done well in terms of qualifying in the African safari, but this is another game, he said. We want to do our best and we want to win everything on stake. We prepared the same, whether we play the champions or not. Preparations are always the same because there are always three points at stake. Harare City were also held to a draw by newcomers Yadah FC in their opening weekend. We didn t play well in the first half and we also need to improve on our finishing. We created a lot of chances, but we couldn t put them away. I have been telling the players that the only way to win is to score more goals than your opponents, Madzivanyika said.The Harare City management has told Madzivanyika that they will not accept anything less than winning the championship. Caps United coach Lloyd Chitembwe said he expects a response from his side after the setback in Zvishavane last week, a draw he attributed to a bad pitch.He has declared his ambitions for the season, where he has set retaining the title as their main priority. Our ambition is very clear. We have tasted it before and we just want to continue winning it. It s not a secret, we are in a position where I feel we can and we just have to win it. That s my honest opinion and the players feel the same, Chitembwe said.City said they have a clean bill of health in the squad while United are fretting over the injury of goalkeeper Edmore Sibanda while Simba Nhivi is refusing to sign a new contract, and is unavailable for the match.Week 2 fixturesToday: Bulawayo City v Chicken Inn (Barbourfields), FC Platinum v Bantu Rovers (Maglas), Black Rhinos v Chapungu (National Sports Stadium), How Mine v Tsholotsho (Luveve)Tomorrow: Caps United v Harare City (National Sports Stadium), Triangle United v Dynamos (Gibbo), Highlanders v Shabanie Mine (Barbourfields), Hwange v Ngezi Platinum (Colliery)</strong>