HIGHLANDERS coach Erol Akbay is optimistic of better fortunes for his club this season after improvements in the squad. The 2017 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season kicks off today, but Highlanders first match will be against Bulawayo City at Barboufields Stadium tomorrow. BY FORTUNE MBELEAkbay said his team would be stronger this season after new additions as well as the players warming up to his style of play. Tomorrow, he expects a tough challenge from Bulawayo City. Bulawayo City are a better team than last year. I have seen them play. We had a training game with them in pre-season. They play a very physical game and they have very good players, Akbay said. I think Bulawayo City will surprise a number of teams this year. But our team is ready. We are stronger than last year and my players are now doing exactly what I want. Forward Roderick Mutuma plays his first league game for Highlanders after his switch from Dynamos.Highlanders will be without the injured pair of Rahman Kutsanzira and Godfrey Makaruse, with midfielder King Nadolo having fully recovered. Bulawayo City have brought in new players this year as well as hiring Mandla Mpofu as the coach.The local authority side snatched Zephania Ngodzo, Bhekimpilo Ncube, Douglas Sibanda, Heritein Masuku, Munyaradzi Mungadze, Clive Rupiya, Lindelani Ncube, Andrew Tandi, Fortune Ncube and Ransome Pavari.Mpofu is aiming to help the team improve from its performance last year. It s a big game and we always expected a game of this kind in our first match and we are well-prepared, Mpofu said. The boys are gelling well as we have blended experience with young blood in the squad. We want to improve from last year. We only picked a point from Highlanders last year and hope to do better this year and improve on the log-standings. Meanwhile, Methembe Ndlovu is expected to bounce back in the dugout as he takes charge of returnees Bantu Rovers against former champions Chicken Inn at Luveve Stadium this afternoon.Bantu Rovers are expected to field 16-year-old striker Nkosilathi Mpofu who featured in the Under-16 and Under-18 Tshintsha Guluva squads last year.They have goalkeeper Ndodana Sibanda, defender Dumisani Ndlovu and Young Warriors midfielder Bukhosi Sibanda.Chicken Inn, with coach Rahman Gumbo, brought in former Mutare City striker Kudakwashe Gurure and Innocent Mucheneka from Hwange.