FELLOW Zimbabweans and countrymen, I am humbled to meet and address you on our historic occasion of celebrating 37 years since we got independence from the colonial rule of Ian Douglas Smith. As National People s Party (NPP) we join the diversity of our country in commemorating this historic day, a day that cuts across political divides, religions, social and economic persuasions, tribes and cultural standings. It is a day that should unite Zimbabweans into one family and it s a day that does not belong to one political party. guest column: JOICE MUJURUTomb of the Unknown SoldierAs we celebrate 37 years of independence, it s time to reflect on the revolutionary ideals that the sons and daughters of this country fought for. We have our countrymen who lost life and limb for the liberation cause of our people and as NPP we take this opportunity to also reflect on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. We went to war for one-man one-vote. As Zimbabweans we were driven to fight the colonial regime by the desire to be treated equally before the eyes of the law. True to that spirit we stood heads, toes and shoulders as equal partners in defeating the oppressive colonial regime of Ian Douglas Smith. It is for the same cause that we lost gallant sons and daughters of this country whose heroic deeds liberating our people, be it in the first and second Chimurenga, remain unparalleled to date.We equally take this day as an opportune moment to make a people s audit on whether the government of the day has implemented the revolutionary ideals our people sacrificed their lives for. It is with a heavy heart that our country which was once the breadbasket of Southern Africa is now a basket case to the world. All sectors of our country s economy are plagued by corruption. Rampant police roadblocks have turned the country into a police state. Our people live in abject poverty in the midst of vast natural resources like minerals which are now preserve of the few. A case in point is the looting of mineral revenue amounting to $15 billion without a trace. That alone demonstrates corruption of the highest order and lack of accountability by the Zanu PF government. The unprecedented level of unemployment is now a terminal culture of our country. Disregard of rule of law with impunity is the order of the day. Our country is politically polarised as a result of the divisive Zanu PF government which has become an epitome of a failed national leadership.As NPP we believe that what ought to be 37 years of Independence has been turned into 37 years of slavery and misery to Zimbabweans. We believe we have the capacity as Zimbabweans to extricate ourselves out of the social, economic and political mess we find ourselves in as a result of Zanu PF s failed government. It is time that all progressive forces within the rank and file of opposition parties ought to put their differences aside and face the failed Zanu PF government as a united front by every constitutional means necessary come 2018 national elections.At one point in time of our liberation struggle with Ian Douglas Smith, Zipra and Zanla joined hands to dislodge the colonial regime not withstanding their ideological and political contradictions. What they had to put first was our country and its people. That alone makes an instructive testimony for the case of a grand coalition to constitutionally remove Zanu PF from power.Our people never went to war so that the destiny of our country can be turned into political dynasties. Zimbabweans deserve to be free and that freedom has to be exercised now. To that end as NPP we urge all the progressive forces within the rank and file of the opposition parties of this country to go back to the basics of the revolutionary ideals of oneness. It is our belief as NPP that what divides us as opposition political parties is smaller than what binds us as a country. Our motto should therefore be United we stand, divided we fall .We, therefore, urge our countrymen that as they celebrate this historic day that is if there is anything to celebrate they should not lose hope and focus that another happy and free Zimbabwe is possible.May God bless you all.I thank you.Joice Mujuru is NPP president