Highlanders . . . . . . . . . . 0 Shabanie Mine . . . . . . . (0)1SHABANIE MINE gave coach Wilson Mutekede a befitting farewell when the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League returnees beat Highlanders at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday in match that saw referee Thomas Masaa flash two red cards. BY FORTUNE MBELEElroy Akbay.Nelson Maziwisa s slick header seven minutes before the final whistle off a Joe Nyabinde cross was all that Shabanie Mine needed to collect maximum points.Highlanders skipper Erick Mudzingwa saw red in the 75th minute for dissent after he reproached Masaa.Mudzingwa was first cautioned before he was dismissed as he continued to verbally abuse the referee.Five minutes before the end, Shabanie s Lloyd Manyande was also shown a red card after collecting a second yellow for time-wasting.But it was a well-deserved victory for Shabanie Mine, who had a well-oiled midfield comprising of Charles Makoto, Farai Mupasiri and Collin Dhuwa, who made a mockery of the experienced Mudzingwa, Simon Munawa, Allen Gahadzikwa and Brian Banda in the first half.Mutekede, who leaves Shabanie Mine to assume his role as the new Zifa technical director, was excited with the way his boys played. We had a good game, especially in the first half, where we could have buried three or four goals, but our boys were not accurate, he said. Our boys applied themselves very well. We are grateful and happy that the boys are managing to handle the pressure of playing the big clubs. Maziwisa could have opened the scoreline in the first minute, but watched his effort hit the crossbar, before the ball was cleared for a corner.Dhuwa then spotted Mupasiri in the 26th minute, but the latter s cracker was met with a brilliant save by Highlanders goalkeeper, Ariel Sibanda.Highlanders also had their share of chances Mutuma, hitting the side net in the 34th minute from a Banda pass and he once again had shortlived celebration having hit the back of the net only for the match officials to rule him offside.Highlanders coach, Erol Akbay was disappointed at the missed chances. Our midfielders played too wide in the first half and our ball possession was not good, Akbay observed. We fixed the problem in the second half, but we could not score and then we got that stupid red card and we had to change everything. It s the killer pass that was lacking and if you cannot score you cannot win a match. TeamsHighlanders: A Sibanda, T Ngulube (R Matema 89 ), H Moyo, B Phiri, P Muduhwa, E Mudzingwa (red card 75 ), P Dube, S Munawa, R Mutuma, B Banda, A Gahadzikwa (T Ndlovu 80 )Shabanie Mine: S Mafukidze, A Dzumbunu, W Mapfumo, C Makoto (J Nyabinde 61 ), F Mupasiri (W Taderera 69 ), T Mavhunga, C Dhuwa, E Phiri (T Mupumha 46 ), N Maziwisa, N Mpofu, L Manyande</strong>