THE first science-fiction film in Zimbabwe, which will also become the second production in Africa after District 5, is set to premier on May 6 at Ster-kinekor, Sam Levy s Village, NewsDay has learnt. BY TAFADZWA KACHIKOThe film titled Amalgamated: The Dawn of Legends, which has its trailer already on YouTube, was co-produced by Gail Cooper, Able Van Klaus Jimba and Mathias Jack. The genre of the film is a common Hollywood feature where films like Superman, Avengers and Matrix were produced.The film s director Klaus confirmed that Information, Media and Broadcasting Services minister Chris Mushowe and the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation acting chief executive officer Patrick Mavhura will grace the occasion. We will be launching what we believe to be the first sci-fiction film in Zimbabwe on May 6 at 5pm at Ster-Kinekor, Sam Levy Borrowdale. Minister Mushowe and ZBC CEO are among esteemed guests, he said. We hope to celebrate the birth of this genre in style and that film lovers will enjoy watching it. Klaus said the film, which was produced on zero-budget, will only be found on the internet and at cinemas. There is no way disc-selling can cover the amount we used to produce the film. As starters we also have no funds to find a distributor to do thousands of copies for the international market. Local disc selling during the time of piracy is costly as well, he said.Klaus said the uniqueness of this genre inspired them to produce the film which also gave birth to Etherial, currently on pre-production stage.In Amalgamated: The Dawn of Legends, the Cyber Security Intelligence Agency which hunts and monitors para-humans, meta-humans and extra-terrestrials got into a dilemma the day it was recruiting a highly potential agent. Their agents started dying mysteriously.Athromira, a Dugaar had come for revenge because the founder of CSIA, a former army general in the spiritual world nearly whipped the Dugaars.Some of the actors in the film are Noel Sandersom, Caroline Yule, Stephen Thomas, Klaus, Stewart Warwick, Roselyn Chakanyuka, Wisdom Makiwa, Jonathan Gankila, Nancy Dzviti, Lizzie Ntini, Tim Harrap, Paula Nyamurowa and Gail Cooper.