Today, 8 April 2017, there is a by election in Mwenezi East constituency following the death of Joshua Moyo in December 2016.BY HEAL ZIMBABWE TRUST Three candidates are vying for the Parliamentary seat and these are Joosbi Omar of the Zanu PF party, Welcome Masuku of the National Constitution Assembly (NCA) and Turner Muhango of the Free Zimbabwe Congress. Kudakwashe Bhasikiti of the Zimbabwe People First (ZimPF) withdrew from the by election citing intimidation of his supporters and vote-buying by Zanu PF.Heal Zimbabwe has deployed a mobile team of observers who are monitoring the by election. Apart from the mobile team, Heal Zimbabwe has also deployed 72 trained human rights monitors at every polling station to monitor the by election. All these efforts are targeted at monitoring the electoral process to see whether it is held in a free, fair, transparent and peaceful manner. Live by election updates will be shared on Heal Zimbabwe Social media platforms that include Twitter (@Healzim) and Facebook (@HealZimbabweTrust).The following are the updates from polling stations.Tafara Primary School ward 13A Zanu Pf youth only identified as Chikava is intimidating people outside the polling station saying that they should vote wisely if they want to continue receiving food aid.Chikwalakwala School ward 6Voting started on time and many people have casted their votes in a peaceful and free manner.Negari Polling station ward 13Polling station opened on time and people are voting in a peaceful mannerMavambo polling ward 13Polling station opened time. Voting process is progressing wellSt Vitalis Primary school ward 5Voting process started on time. Voting process progressing well.Chimbudzi Primary School ward 5The polling station opened on time and people are coming in their numbers to vote.Chingami Primary School ward 5The polling station opened on time. About 200 people present when polling station opened.Negari Polling station ward 13Polling station opened on time. There were 16 people outside polling station when it openedRutenga Primary School ward 18Polling station opened on time. As at 9am, 46 males and 40 females had voted.Matande Primary School ward 2Polling station opened on time. Voting process is progressing well.Rata Primary School ward 2Polling station opened on time. By 9am, 127 had voted (75 female, 52 males). 23 people assisted (5 male and 18 female).Vilivili polling station ward 13Polling station opened on time. About 300 people were present when polling station opened. Voting process progressing well.Mucheni primary school ward 13Polling station opened on time. Voting process progressing well. Sagwari polling station ward 13Polling station opened on time. Voting process progressing well