DYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa (pictured) believes the Harare giants can pick themselves up and mount a strong challenge on the Premier Soccer League title as they make the trip to Triangle. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKALloyd MutasaThe Glamour Boys 2017 Premiership bid got off to a slow start after they were edged 1-0 by long-time adversaries FC Platinum in the opening match of the campaign last Sunday.This is despite the fact that they were comfortably the more dominant side with FC Platinum synonymous with their passing game struggling. But ultimately Mutasa s men failed to turn possession and chances into goals.And as the Glamour Boys prepare for the trip to Triangle, Mutasa said they drew a lot of positives from their opening match of the season against FC Platinum. He also said they were their own enemies after failing to kill off the match. We drew a lot of positives from our last match. The bad thing is that we failed to score and when you don t score you can t win matches. This week we have been working on rectifying that area going to the Triangle match. I think we have done our part and are still doing.You know in football you will never say you are done, so we are still working and we will see how it reflects in our next match, Mutasa said.The Harare giants had a sluggish start to the campaign last term under the guidance of Portuguese coach Paulo Jorge Silva, managing just one win in five matches. And Mutasa, who took over from the Portuguese, who has assembled a squad blended with youth and experience which observers believe can fight for honours this term, says they want to do better than last season in the first few games of the season and then take each game as it comes. We have said to ourselves, it s a must that for a start we should do better than what we did last season. Then after that we will take each game as it comes and see where that leads us to, Mutasa said.Last season, Dynamos managed just one win in their first five matches and they eventually finished in a disappointing fifth position.However, this time around, the Glamour Boys appear to have a squad that can go all the way. They have several new faces on their books and in the last match acquisitions that include Lincoln Zvasiya, Gift Saunyama, Quality Kangadzi and Emmanuel Mandiranga all started and gave a good account of themselves.But Cameroonian international Ntoupa Epoupa is still awaiting the processing of his papers and will miss the second match against Triangle.