DYNAMOS . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 HOW MINE . . . . . . . . . . . . (1)1IF the result alone, where Dynamos lost their second home Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie against How Mine at the National Sports Stadium yesterday, was not enough evidence to show that this could be another difficult year for the team, the brutal assessment by Zambian coach Kelvin Kaindu would have sent the message home. BY HENRY MHARATo their credit, the usually hard-to-please Dynamos fans have stood by coach Lloyd Mutasa and share his vision for the team.After yesterday s match, where his team was generally flat, he received another ovation, but How Mine coach Kaindu gave his frank assessment which Dynamos fans will not want to hear, but one which may prepare them for more disappointments ahead.Kaindu, in his post-match comments, said the Harare giants current squad was too ordinary and their lack of edge could have potentially damaging effects to the top-flight league s overall competitiveness and excitement. Dynamos have always been strong; I can t take away the pedigree that they have. I have so much respect for them. But I think they are not as strong as we know Dynamos, Kaindu observed. I have seen Dynamos play and I think they need to push a bit. The league needs a team like Dynamos to play well to be competitive. They have a team that they have assembled with youngsters, and with enough support they will probably come up and compete. Toto Banda scored the only goal of the match in the 43rd minute, which gave How Mine their second win of the season.The defeat was a huge setback to Mutasa s team, who came into the match looking to build some momentum following last week s win over Hwange, their only victory this campaign after losing and drawing their opening two matches to FC Platinum and Triangle respectively.Mutasa admitted his team was average, but was hopeful they would get it right in the next matches, starting with a tricky one against high-flying Yadah at the weekend.The only reason why Mutasa probably got away with the tepid performance from his boys yesterday was that he was missing a number of key and regular players through injury.He started the match without captain Ocean Mushure, Denver Mukamba, Masimba Mambare, Godfrey Saunyama, Christian Ntouba (injuries) and Obey Mwerahari, who is on compassionate leave.And his makeshift squad struggled throughout and were lucky not to concede a penalty in the first 10 minutes when referee Nelson Chadya waved on How Mine appeals for a penalty after Carlos Rusere appeared to have handled inside the box.The visiting side created the better chances and deservedly went ahead when Banda headed home after a defensive mix-up in the Dynamos box, Lincoln Zvasiya s looping headed back pass beating his goalkeeper Mateyaunga and the How Mine midfielder powering the ball into the nets despite Elisha Muroiwa s efforts to keep it out.Dynamos best chance arrived well after the half-hour mark when quick exchanges of passes opened the How Mine defence, Mutasa s son Wisdom squaring the ball to Emmanuel Mandiranga, who somehow directed his shot wide.Dynamos wasted another good opportunity to equalise when Takunda Sadiki raced clear in the 55th minute, but hit the upright before Rusere had another shot bouncing off the cross bar in injury time as the home side desperately searched for an equaliser.How Mine looked to kill off the contest with the last attack of the match, when they broke on a counter, but Kuda Musharu s deft dink ricochetted off the upright.Teams Dynamos: T Mateyaunga, P Dube, C Rusere, L Zvasiya, E Muroiwa, T Chipunza, P Makaha (V Ndaba, 60&#8242;), E Mandiranga, T Sadiki (C Kapupurika, 76&#8242;), W Mutasa (T Macheke, 76&#8242;), Q KangadzeHow Mine: B Donovan, P Tonha (T Ranthokoane, 58&#8242;), B Mbiriri, K Chideu, M Sakala, M Mukumba (T Makanda, 82&#8242;), T Banda, P Manhanga, K Musharu, M Ncube, T January (N Ndhlovu, 66&#8242;) </strong>