 YOU must die, so that we can live, seems to be the logic of our conventional view of war and armed violence. I must respond to your hatred in the same coin. The response to violence is more violence. guest column: Fr Oskar Wermter SJJesus of Nazareth taught his friends and followers, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you The main feasts of the Christian year are around the corner, Good Friday and Easter. Many miss the message. All who draw the sword will die by the sword (Mt 26: 52). The man who said this could have fought back. He could have saved himself, the man from Nazareth. That would have moved the spiral of violence even further. Which would have made no real difference. It would only have confirmed the violent ones in their belief in violence, the warmongers in their reliance on lethal weapons and made them more ruthless about human lives. For Jesus of Nazareth this was no longer an option. He had taught his friends and followers, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you (Mt 5:44). How crazy can one be, many will have thought, rejecting the message outright? He was to prove that this was the only way to overcome not just war and violence here and there, but the beginning of abolishing hatred, violence, war, once and for all, everywhere, the beginning of the reign of justice. His Father, he said, causes his sun to rise on the bad as well as the good and sends down rain on the wicked and upright alike . He himself did indeed pray for those who persecuted him . That is the way he died, praying for his executioners, Father, forgive them, they do not know what they are doing (Mt 23:34). Love your enemies was not just a word, it was a programme for action, for all-embracing love even of those who are filled with hatred.This programme is valid even today. It cannot be replaced by the just war theory, let alone the belief in a holy war . The Creator gave life to friend and foe alike, and we are close to them all, and cannot deny their humanity. There is never a just reason for xenophobia, for Berlin walls or protective barriers. Bombers and assassins are tearing down the last moral inhibitions and act now in a free-for-all scenario. We have lived with violence and military might for so long. Has it brought us peace, greater justice? The love of enemy is a more radical way. The man from Galilee seems to have ended in defeat. But Easter has vindicated him. He did not repay violence with more violence, but overwhelmed his enemies with love of them as God s children. Never repay one wrong with another, or one abusive word with another. We are to repay with a blessing , and see rivals with the eyes of the God, all to share in the common good. It is not enough that a leader saves himself, he must save the entire people in his care, even his opponents who may not have voted for him, as long as they are his fellow citizens. That is the spirit of love of enemy , the victorious spirit of Easter.