VETERAN jazz musician, Bob Nyabinde has urged parents to support their children s dreams if they sought to pursue a musical career, saying it was time to cast away the mentality that the arts were a preserve for delinquents. BY TAFADZWA KACHIKOBob NyabindeThe Chabuda Hapana hit maker made the remarks at the launch of Team Fusion s debut album, Dangwe at the Masvingo Civic Centre Hall last week.In reference to local legend, Oliver Tuku Mtukudzi, Nyabinde said music pays off if one takes it seriously. Parents, do not be mad at children, telling them that music is purposeless, it is not true, he said. If it was for directionless people, Mtukudzi would not have built Pakare Paye Arts centre with 33 rooms, three conference centres, a performance place and a shopping mall in one place. The best thing is that you will be paid for doing what you love. The former headmaster encouraged Team Fusion to value time and to be disciplined. One way for you to succeed in this industry is through balancing your time, Nyabinde said. You should set time to read as students and time to update your skills. The field you have joined also needs discipline. Act as a band and leave a good name wherever you perform. Guest of honour, Great Zimbabwe University (GZU) vice-chancellor, Rungano Zvobgo, a former lead vocalist and bass guitarist for the band Afrobeat, which he joined when he was doing an undergraduate degree in India, concurred, saying some parents view music negatively. We still take the traditional attitude that a child who plays a guitar has taken the wrong turn and we get so worried, he said. Musicians make more money than all of us here can never make in a year. Anyone who does not live with some aspects of arts and culture in him or her does not know how much he or she is missing. Zvobgo recalled that when he got to his fourth year, his late brother, Edson stopped him from continuing with music. One day, an ANC representative in New Delhi called me and said your brother in prison sends a message saying I am in jail and you are busy on guitars, this does not define our tribe. Stop this and bring home a qualification , he said.Zvobgo, who received a gift of a guitar from Nyabinde, said the university would consider buying the crew a commuter omnibus for travelling to shows. It s is usually not easy to record a group, but I did not have challenges working with this team. I see a bright future in them, album producer Munya Viya, said.Five copies of the album were auctioned at $410, with highest bidders being GZU s registrar, Sinikiwe Gwatidzo paying $150, Zvobgo $100 and Masvingo mayor Hubert Fidze $70.