WHEN Michael Mahendere, popularly known as Minister in gospel music circles released his debut album, Getting Personal with God 1 several years ago, there was no doubt he was onto something. BY WINSTONE ANTONIOGospel artist Michael Mahendere perfoms on stage during his album launch at Ster Kinekor in Harare on ThursdayWhile local gospel music fans have fond memories of the hugely-popular Mahendere Brothers with their catchy video dressed in long white coats and appealing music, Michael the youngest after Akim, Amos and Misheck appears to have gone a step further than his brothers. On Thursday last week, he launched his third album, Getting Personal with God 3, sealing his status as a gospel musician to watch. Mahendere credited his family for his success. I want to thank my parents for passing the music skills to my brothers as I later received the music mentorship from them (brothers), Mahendere said in a pre-recorded interview screened at the launch.His elder brother, Amos, said Mahendere never settled for shoddy work. Michael is one person who argues for quality to an extent that you can leave recording and come the next day. He can tell you that the lead guitarist is wrong and he can grab the guitar and then demonstrate (how it should be done), he said.During the launch, guests were taken down memory lane with the screening of the yesteryear videos of the Mahendere brothers, which featured Michael as a teenager.United Family International Church spokesperson, Prime Kufa, said church founder Emmanuel Makandiwa, challenged people to shun piracy. His message remains of anti-piracy. We can play our part, let s get our music through proper channels and not take part in putting the music industry down. God has given them the talent, let s support it in a proper way since this is livelihood and let s stay away from pirated music it s as bad as drugs, he said.Guest of honour, business mogul Philip Chiyangwa, pledged a residential stand in the affluent suburb of Borrowdale to the musician. I have been impressed with your music. As you know that my real forte is property, I will give you a stand in Borrowdale from our sales and give you the title deeds. Come to our office on Monday (today), Chiyangwa said. Mahendere, backed by his highly-energetic Direct Worship group, later took to the stage and got the audience onto its feet as they sang Makanaka Jesu and Masimba Ndeenyu.