A RETAILERS association has advocated the creation of more retail hubs, a strategy which has been used by developed and developing countries in a bid to create shopping convenience. BY TATIRA ZWINOIRAThe call by the Confederation of Zimbabwe Retailers (CZR) comes when a recent Knight Frank 2017 Africa Report revealed reduced occupancy levels with some landlords in the central business district converting office space to shops.CZR president Denford Mutashu told NewsDay last week that retail hubs are a noble model that offers convenience to consumers. India and China for example have mastered the concept and it is quite convenient for shoppers. In China for example where I was, there is a phone market where you get all varieties of cell phone brands under one mall. There are expansive malls for jeans wear, headgear, shirts, suits, shoes and hair products, he said. The success of such models hinges on industrialisation. The economy should be self-sufficient and create a manufacturing hub and ensure most of the goods are made here in Zimbabwe. China and India manufacture and assemble most of the goods they sell through the retail sector such as cell phones, clothes, and electronic gadgets. He said creating these hubs would force shops to offer discounts where prices would be determined by competition and not by current practices of type of currency.A survey carried out by NewsDay showed that a number of such retail hubs were slowly popping up in different areas. One such place is located between Orr and Second Street along Robert Mugabe Road. The hubs sell clothing, electronic and cellphones.Once office space, central business district (CBD) landlords have been struggling with huge occupancy voids and as such were finding leasing smaller retail space more lucrative space.The creation of such hubs also comes at a time when the Knight Frank 2017 Africa Report found that prime rentals for CBD retail space were cheaper than suburban at $20 per square metre compared to $25 per square metre respectively.Interest in these retail hubs in the CBD also come at a time when construction of new suburban shopping malls has been shelved due to the country s poor performance. These include the Mall of Zimbabwe and the Gunhill Mall, which have been shelved in light of the country s poor economic outlook.