Relationships are a basic human need. Our first relationship is with God and then our family and our friends and as we grow older we all want to have a romantic relationship that leads to marriage. This is largely because all these other relationships cannot provide us with what a marital relationship is designed to provide. Because of these, all normal people have a great need for this relationship. However, this kind of a relationship is unique in the sense that, it is a lifelong commitment and is regarded by God as holy. Relationships: Kilton MoyoMarriage is not a child s game. It needs readiness and total commitmentIt is not only special to us, but also to Him, God. It really defines us more than we think and must be entered into with great preparedness and understanding. This is why it requires a high degree of maturity. This is why people get into it at different levels of their lives and many are not in a hurry to.However, you will agree with me that there are many of us, particularly young people, who are so desperate to get into this kind of relationship. The more desperate they become, the more dangerous this becomes to them. Many are desperate because of peer pressure. All their friends are involved one way or the other or they are all married and pressure becomes too much more so in a culture that thinks being married is an achievement. Others are under pressure from their own selfish ambitions and serious lack of understanding on what marriage is all about. Others too are under pressure of the socio-economic environment in the world and think that there is refuge in marriage. There is also another group that is made desperate by demanding parents, who care so much about their own status than that of their children. I must not forget that others, many of them are under pressure from their religions, who really force them to get married and worse still to people they never love, but just for the sake of religion or church. One reason for a high divorce rate in this generation and even in the church is getting into marriage with so much of desperation. I want to show you some dangers of being too desperate for marriage.Blared judgmentDesperation in any situation will compromise your judgment of issues. It makes you see things in the way you want and not what they are. Many well-meaning young people, male and female have thrown themselves into hurtful relationships because they went into them desperate, led by feelings and external pressure and without discernment. Before you know it you are so hurt and turned into a slave and because of pride you sacrifice your joy and health in a satanic relationship. I would rather have you take your time than betray yourself in this manner.Despising godly counselMany, when desperate, they will shun or avoid godly counsel. They allow their feelings to counsel them. They follow feelings more than reality. They ignore all warnings and their desperation makes them walk into the mouth of a goat and be hurt willingly like that. Many will even hate those, who are trying to make them reason. You see desperation for love is like a spiritual possession. It pushes and makes you close all your lines of wisdom. Desperation is like lust. It is one thing to be avoided when it comes to relationships.Picking on anythingDesperate people lose the taste of choice. They begin to admire anything that comes their way. This means that they settle for anything that comes first. They have no time for reason and logic. They have no time for other serious detail needed in a relationship. They close their ears to any voice of reason and just push themselves to the altar. Others become dumb and give sex to get pregnant, so they can really force a marriage. Now this is serious deception. Desperation can be deception too. You hear stories of some ladies even paying lobola for themselves just because they want to be married. Who are you fooling? You see, I can go on and on but maybe for today this is enough so you can ponder on these. Being this desperate will have you hurt and completely wracked. Maybe you are asking what then shall I do coach? My answer and advice to you is common:Wait There is no harm in waiting until the right person walks into your life. The truth is they will one of these days. Enjoy your life Do not postpone your life parking it in shame waiting for a wife or husband. Get on with your life. Prepare yourself. Invest in yourself and before you know it, the person is arrived.Stop attending to negative voices of criticism of your status You do not marry to please anyone including your parents or Bishop. You marry for yourself. Marry when you are ready and not when they think you are ready. Marry when you want and not when they want. There is absolutely nothing wrong with you being a 30-year-old lady and still not married. There is absolutely nothing wrong with you being a 40-year-old man and still not married. As long as you are not sleeping around. Define your lines and stop ruining yourself for the sake of scorners around you.Marry when you are ready Marriage is not a child s game. It needs readiness and total commitment. It requires a high level of maturity. Get mature and be ready for the only life s sweetest human relationship. You do not want to get there messed up or mess up.Kick that desperation out. Work, travel, serve, write, learn and do all those things you love and while doing what you love, he or she comes. Take a rest beloved. Nothing is wrong with you. This is what I call sleeping like Adam. When you wake up the bone of your bones is standing by you.Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment programme, and is pastor, counsellor and author of Marriage Fitness. Call or whatsapp on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or kilton.citizenafrica@consultant.com