Yadah FC . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1) 1 ZPC Kariba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League newboys Yadah FC recorded their first victory after beating ZPC Kariba at the National Sports Stadium yesterday and immediately declared that they are fighting for the league title. BY HENRY MHARAYadah held Harare City in their season opener last week, which they followed up with an impressive win yesterday, achieved courtesy of a 45th minute Jimmy Dzingai goal.ZPC Kariba, however, felt the goal shouldn t have stood as their player Talent Chamboko appeared to clear the ball on the line, but referee Nomore Musundire stood his ground saying the whole circumference of the ball had crossed the line.The away team protested the decision, led by assistant coach Brenna Msiska, who was eventually sent to the stands for his troubles.This was ZPC Kariba s first defeat of the season following their win over How Mine in their season opener last week.Yadah coach Jairosi Tapera said his boys deserved the win, as they played well, and captain Brian Mapfumo, one of the few experienced guys in a largely youthful side, immediately declaring they are gunning for the league title. Like what the Prophet (Walter Magaya) said, anything is possible with us. I m excited to be playing in a team with these youngsters, who have a lot of energy. I want to thank the coach for bringing in the new players like Leeroy Mavhunga and Leeroy Murape, Mapfumo said.ZPC Kariba coach Sunday Chidzambwa was disappointed with the team s performance. He said they lost possession unnecessarily.When asked about the goal incident, the veteran coach said: I don t want to comment about referees. They say it s a goal and we must honour that. It was the Kariba-based side who started the match well, creating the better chances, but never troubled Tafadzwa Dube in goals for Yadah FC.Francesco Zekumbawire wasted a cross from the right for the visitors on the half hour mark. At the other hand, the home side felt they should have been awarded a penalty after the troublesome Mavhunga appeared to be hacked from behind inside the penalty area. They had a genuine case.Yadah FC were creating chances of their own too, with 18-year-old Mavhunga causing havoc on the wings, and one of his dangerous crosses was flicked on the path of Dzingai to fire home for the solitary goal of the afternoon.ZPC Kariba, to their credit, did push forward in the second half in search of the equaliser, but again lacked ideas in the final third.And in their bid to find a goal, they were nearly punished late on when Yadah FC broke on a counter with Mavhunga who released substitute and namesake Murape to run clear, who attempted an audacious dink, that however, failed to gather enough flight to beat goalkeeper Tendai Hove. The final whistle was greeted with wild cheers from the Yadah FC supporters, who celebrated the victory like they had won the league title.TeamsYadah: T Dube, A Makopa, B Chikwenya, J Dzingai, R Dongo, B Mapfumo, W Kamudyariwa, D Svanhu (M Makopa, 80 , L Mavhunga, M Musiyakuri (L Murape, 54 ), J SibandaZPC Kariba: T Hove, T Munyanduri, M Kudyarimwe, S Appiah, A Chivheya, T Mamvura (T Nyamandwe, 54 ), D Chakupe T Mugoniwa, 67 ), T Chamboko, T Mandizadza (J Tigere, 46 ), R Manuvire, F Zekumbawire</strong>