Dynamos striker Masimba Mambare believes that the current crop of players at the club this season is better than what they had in the last two seasons. BY Tawanda Tafirenyika/Kenneth NyanganiMasimba MambareMambare said the club has benefited from the offloading of ageing players who were replaced by younger exuberant players who have transformed the team into a sharper and quicker side.Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa weeded out veteran midfielder Stephen Alimenda, striker Rodreck Mutuma and Sydney Linyama, among others.Mutasa has assembled a generally youthful side which Mambare, who finished as the club s top goal scorer last season, believes has the potential to challenge for honours. We have a young team, we now have a lot of speed as compared to the last two seasons where we had ageing players, Mambare told NewsDaySport this week. The speed we have in the side now is helping us you could see in the last match that we were catching FC Platinum on the counter attacks and pressing them high, which we could not do in the previous seasons. We have players that get into promising positions on time. As time goes on when we get used to each other everything will come right. DeMbare will be hoping to recover from last week s set back when they lost to FC Platinum when they take on Triangle at Gibbo Stadium tomorrow. As a team, we have learnt from the previous match, we wasted chances and in football you don t utilise your chances you can get punished. At Gibbo, we have to improve on conversion, we have to go there and score goals. We need to take all three points. We are working hard as a team to get the starting places, competition is high in the team no one is guaranteed a places. Meanwhile, Triangle coach Taurai Mangwiro is optimistic of collecting maximum points against a wounded Dynamos when the two sides clash tomorrow. Triangle have confidence following an away goalless draw against Chapungu in Gweru.Mangwiro wants to see his side follow up last week s point with a full set of points. We are fancying our chances, we are eager to make a follow up on a point we collected away from home. We have been working tirelessly so that we collect maximum points, Mangwiro said. We have almost full squad at our disposal only Ralph Kawondera has injury. However at the same time we know this is going to be a difficult game. We are playing before our home fans for the first time this season so there is need to impress, he added.