FC Platinum captain, Petros Mhari has urged his side not to get carried away by their win over Dynamos in the two teams Castle Lager Premier Soccer League opener at the weekend, but rather shift focus to the next match. BY HENRY MHARAFC Platinum captain Petros MhariWinstone Mhango converted from the spot in the first half, and the Zvishavane-based team were then denied a second goal when Charles Sibanda s strike was ruled out for offside.The goal should have stood since it was Dynamos defender Lincoln Zvasiya who had the last touch of the ball, his miscued clearance setting up Sibanda to run clear and score.Referee Ruzive Ruzive initially signalled for goal, but his assistant had his flag up, and the effort was cancelled, a decision that infuriated the platinum miners. The mistake by the officials mattered very little though, as FC Platinum, playing second fiddle to their wasteful opponents for most parts of the match, managed to hold on for the three points.Mhari, who parried Denver Mukamba s shot onto the bar, admitted his side had ridden their luck, but was still pleased with the performance. I m very happy that we managed to start our season with a win against one of the giants. It s a good start for us and we can only build from this. Our aim was to at least get a draw from this match because we knew it was going to be a tough match, Mhari said.FC Platinum, beaten to the league by just two points last season, are looking to do better this time, and the club s hierarchy have already publicly stated they will not accept anything less. We have heard reports that the leadership wants the league title, but we haven t been addressed to that effect. Of course, as players, we always want to win something at the end of the season and we will do our best. We have a very good squad capable of winning the league. Today [Sunday] we won, but we never really played to our best. I know we can do much better than this. And for me it s an encouraging sign that we can play badly and still get a result. FC Platinum s next match is a winnable one against returnees Bantu Rovers before travelling to Chicken Inn.