THE Zimbabwe Film Industry Development Platform has petitioned government to establish a film commission that will be tasked with overseeing the fledgling local film industry among other proposals to inject life into the sector.  BY TAFADZWA KACHIKO The letter, signed by the platform’s chairperson Antony Mutambira, was addressed to Media, Information and Broadcasting Services permanent secretary George Charamba and copied to the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe, Sports, Arts and Recreation Ministry and Home Affairs. “In order to better organise the  sector and facilitate  growth, government should establish a film commission to deal  with all film-related  issues, both  locally and foreign, including funding and services to the  film  industry,” Mutambira said.
“ZFIDP is committed to  raising  standards in the Zimbabwean  film  industry to produce consistent,  high-quality  film  and television  content  for  the  enjoyment of all Zimbabweans  and the  benefit of our  nation.” The letter, to which 150 local filmmakers including Tsitsi Dangarembga and Simon  de  Swardt appended their signatures, was written following President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s call for the new Cabinet ministers to come up with “quick-win projects” in various sectors. Mutambira said a film commission was necessary to promote growth of the industry adding that the proposed commission would administer a film fund to support all forms of media and film production.  It will also help maintain  an archive of films produced  in  Zimbabwe and promote the country  as  a  shooting  location to foreign  filmmakers and media producers. Filmmakers also requested government to provide adequate  funding  to  existing  film-training institutions and ensure they are well-managed, while channelling existing resources towards the formation of a practical and professional film school and complete the digitalisation  programme. “A functional film and media industry contributes in many ways to a country. As a ‘quick win’, government should appoint a new professional board and key management at Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation and license new private broadcasters,”Mutambira said. 