PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa has succumbed to local and international pressure and yesterday withdrew soldiers from the streets and on major roads following a five-week military intervention, code-named Operation Restore Legacy, which led to former President Robert Mugabe’s dramatic fall last month. BY OBEY MANAYITI Newly-appointed Zimbabwe Defence Forces Commander General Phillip Valerio Sibanda announced the soldiers’ pullout yesterday, saying the police had now resumed all civilian policing duties with immediate effect. “Today (yesterday), as the defence forces, [we] hand over all normal day-to-day policing duties to the Zimbabwe Republic Police, we urge all our citizens to allow for a smooth transition,” he said. “Members of the public are urged to respect, support and co-operate with the police as they execute their constitutional mandate.  “On the other hand, the Zimbabwe Republic Police are expected to fully take over their responsibilities and perform according to their constitutional mandate and client service charter.” The army withdrawal came less than a week after United States President Donald Trump’s government demanded soldiers’ return to the barracks, among other demands, before it could consider reengaging Harare for an economic bailout. Opposition parties and members of the civic society had cried foul over alleged human rights abuses by soldiers, enforcing law and order at most public institutions. Motorists had celebrated the police’s short stint off the roads, often accusing the law enforcement agents of abrogating their policing duties in pursuit of bribes.   Police were resuming their duties three days after their boss, Commissioner-General Augustine Chihuri went on leave pending retirements amid allegations of failing to discipline his subordinates During Mnangagwa’s inauguration as President last month, Chihuri had a torrid time after being heckled and booed by the public, who called on him to resign. The military justified its intervention, saying it was meant to stop criminals around Mugabe. Sibanda warned those in exile to stop bad-mouthing the country from foreign lands, a message directed at members of the G40 faction, who fled the country in the aftermath of the military intervention. “This is because some of the members of the G40 cabal that had surrounded the former Head of State are now bad-mouthing the country from foreign lands, where their intention is to harm the peace and tranquillity that exists in our country,” he said. “It is, therefore, the duty of every Zimbabwean to ensure that these malcontents and saboteurs and others of like mind are not allowed to succeed.”
Sibanda also called for peaceful elections next year. 