WARRIORS star Marvelous Nakamba is targeting a move to the English Premier League (EPL), just months after joining Belgian top-flight football side Club Brugge where he has been nothing short of a revelation. BY HENRY MHARA  The combative midfielder joined the club in June from the Netherlands for a reported £4 million fee on a four-year contract, after allegedly snubbing overtures by Juventus and Inter Milan. He has made an impressive start to life in Brugge, starting in 17 of the 19 league matches for the high flyers who currently top the league table with 47 points, eight clear of closest rivals Sporting Charleroi. His impressive showing at Brugge, one of the European giants, has seen his name naturally being touted around Europe as a result, with Premiership side Liverpool reportedly leading the chase for his signature. Nakamba, voted the player of the month for September in the league, was at his instrumental best at the weekend when his team demolished rivals Anderlecht 5-0 on Sunday. Speaking to reporters after the match, Nakamba admitted his style of play was suited to the EPL, and a move to the league, described as the best in the world, could not be ruled out.   “Yes, some people told me that I have a game cut for England because of my qualities, it’s (a move is) possible. It was the only European championships we could watch at home (Zimbabwe). We’ll see later, it’s nice to know that some clubs are watching me. What’s important now is for me to be successful with the club and my national team. For great competitions, here we have a good team and an excellent midfield where I feel very comfortable alongside players like Vanaken or Vormer,” Nakamba said.  According to the English media, Liverpool are leading the race where they have identified the 25-year as a potential replacement for Emre Can, who is likely to leave the club in January. Struggling Newcastle are also believed to be preparing a bid, although Nakamba has publicly stated he will prefer a move to Anfield if they come knocking. Nakamba joined Brugge from Vitesse at the start of the season after a successful spell in the Netherlands. He featured twice in the Europa League for his new club, which was unfortunately booted out in the initial stages of the competition. However, they will be looking to play in the more glamorous Uefa Champions League next season if they can maintain their first position until the end of the season. Nakamba has been described as not only combative, but has underrated technical qualities and quickness of thought.
His best attributes are his passing and tackling, making him very much an all-action midfielder. Born in Hwange, Nakamba made his senior debut with Bantu Rovers in 2010, aged 16. He left the country in July 2012, and had trials at French side Nancy. He officially joined Nancy in December 2012 for an undisclosed fee and was immediately assigned to the team’s reserve side. In May 2014, Nakamba played his first match as a professional, starting in a 3-1 home win against Angers SCO. In July 2014, Nakamba went for trials at Eredivisie side Vitesse, and the following month, he signed a four-year deal with the Arnhem side and made his debut for the club on September 27 the same year. Nakamba established himself in Vitesse’s starting 11 during the 2015/16 campaign and went on to appear 30 times, performance that led Club Brugge to take notice.