Every human being has an innate desire to succeed in life — and to do so quickly, because time waits for no man.
The challenge for many such dreamers, however, is how to go about it in a society that frowns upon cutting corners and seeking quick-fix solutions to the myriad of problems that are part and parcel of human life.  By Phillip Chidavaenzi Title:  Success in No Time
Author:  Marshal Chiza
Publisher:   Self (2016)
ISBN:   978-0-7974-9673-6 Author and motivational speaker, Marshal Chiza, may have a few insights into how one can negotiate this critical bend in life. He shares these insights in his classic publication, Success in No Time, in which he offers a step by step guide to those who are keen to transform their lives into a series of successes.  Published in 2016, the slim volume may appear deceptive at face value, but once you begin to flip through the pages and glean its wisdom, you realise that, indeed, you can successfully reach for your dreams and see them come to fruition in a very short time.  It is a book that punctures many of the myths that people are drip-fed while growing up, particularly that success is only for a chosen few, while the majority stand at the sidelines cheering those in the race to succeed. In just 13 short chapters, Chiza offers a broad overview on how one can subdue time and, like shooting down ducks in a row, line up “trophies” in their cabinet as one milestone after another is reached. In many ways, Chiza simplifies what a lot of people struggle with — seeing into their future. Here, we learn that the moment you understand your dream, you already have a glimpse of your future. Chiza then shares the practical steps that constitute the journey towards the realisation of that dream. He writes, “It has been said that you do not become successful by doing great things, but you become successful by doing small things in a great way. Success is hidden in those small daily activities or rituals we do.” (pp4). Spiritual principles exemplified in the Bible, Chiza argues, play a critical role as a catalyst of one’s dreams. In this light, he uses scriptural examples to lend weight to his arguments.  This is particularly with respect to positive affirmations. What is critical here is the realisation that people’s general selection of words plays a crucial role in their success or downfall. Once one decides to make a quick work of success, it will not be delivered on a silver platter.  In fact, Chiza argues that it is no stroll in the park because the path to the pinnacle of success is strewn with thorns and such other hurdles. Given such a backdrop, optimism becomes an important ingredient, and one needs large helpings of it.  In the book, Chiza compares optimism to the spiritual law of faith, whose application downloads into the physical world things seen in the realm of the spirit.  Chiza is a young man and, understandably his own personal life experiences may not be sufficient to rely on, but he has been wise enough to draw on the bankable authority of scripture and other great writers and philosophers to strengthen his arguments. Apart from biblical allusions, you will find here references to the writings of the likes of Winston Churchill, Earl Nightingale, Thomas Jefferson and Nelson Mandela.   Chiza contends that instead of merely seeing problems as stumbling blocks along the path to success, the wise can use them as a springboard to catapult them towards their intended destination. He says: “Not all troubles in life are molehills or simply made out of air. If you view them in a hopeful and optimistic way, then yes, they may teach and transform you.” (pp9). Another key element in the journey to success, as we read here, is visualisation. Chiza contends here that visualisation opens up possibilities in one’s mind, as they are able to paint a mental picture of what they desire.  Indeed, life is full of blind spots and without a creative imagination, reaching out for one’s dreams can be an impossible task.  A secret of many of those who have translated their dreams into reality is the ability to create mental pictures of success — that ability to see the end from the beginning. Here, the reader is challenged to visualise their success even before it has happened because this will help in the actualisation process. From reading the book, one can tell Chiza was so consumed by delivering his message that he did not spare time for adding a touch of colour in his text.  He goes straight for the bull’s eye and is happy that his message is delivered to the recipient. After putting the book down, I just thought to myself: it may as well have been titled, Success Made Simple. This, indeed, is a collector’s item. Feedback: pchidavaenzi@newsday.co.zw