THE country is experiencing a critical shortage of soya bean seed, but has enough maize seed to meet the national requirements for the coming agricultural season. BY VENERANDA LANGA This was disclosed by Finance minister Patrick Chinamasa in his 2018 National Budget statement where he indicated that currently there were  42 250 tonnes of seed maize available, which could adequately cover the needs of farmers. “However, there is a critical shortage of soya beans seeds, for which only 2 750 tonnes are available, against a requirement of 6 000 tonnes for soya beans production under the Command Agriculture programme,” Chinamasa said.  “With regard to availability of fertilisers, indications are that the fertiliser industry is currently sitting on 120 000 tonnes of fertiliser, ready for disposal to the market.”  The Finance minister said the industry had capacity to produce an additional 160 000 tonnes between November 2017 and January 2018, adding that the necessary raw materials were available in bonded houses within the country, but would require $61,32 million in foreign currency.   On storage of maize, Chinamasa said the Grain Marketing Board would continue to rehabilitate and upgrade both silo and bagged depots to ensure safe storage of strategic grain reserves, as well as ensure adequate preparations for the 2018/19 intake.  “In this regard, the rehabilitation and upgrading works will focus on mechanical works, installation of generators and driers at silo depots, as well as construction of sheds, and hard stands at bagged depots. Arrangements will also be considered to dispose part of the strategic grain reserves around February 2018 in order to create space for the next intake,” he said. On revival of cotton production in order to resuscitate the clothing value chain, Chinamasa said the government had scaled up its support for cotton production with free inputs valued at $60 million, up from about $40 million which was disbursed the previous season. “The above resources are expected to produce at least 130 000 tonnes of seed cotton.  However, incidences of side-marketing of the crop to neighbouring countries and smuggling remain a threat, and Cottco will work closely with relevant authorities to improve monitoring,” he said.  