This coming Sunday the 17th is our anniversary, where we celebrate 33 years of friendship, joy, success, failure, pain, shame and everything you can imagine.  By KILTON MOYO This far we have come, not because we are experts, but because the Lord is with us and we have decided over the years that we will “die unto-self and deny ourselves” so we can become the couple we have to be, so we can also minister to others.  It has been a refreshing journey sharing our experiences and wisdom and understanding with all our readers over the few years we have written this column. So this week I have decided to share with you a few wisdom tips from our experiences and teachings. I wanted to give you 33 tips, but let us see how much we can get today because of space. I pray you will learn something from this. Build your spousal relationship on your foundational relationship with Jesus Christ. This is the rock of all relationships.
Get the three most important building pillars in this life. These are wisdom, understanding and knowledge. Many marriages suffer a lot of foolishness and ignorance. As a husband, your wife is the best thing there is in the world. You are not your spouse’s boss, but their lover and equal. Call each other by name. This keeps you connected, friends and dating. It is an amazing therapy. Be available and accessible to your spouse. Always forgive each other. Stay open with each other and keep no secrets.  Secrets have destroyed many marriages. Be transparent with your finances. Many of us play foolish games here and betray love. As a husband stop comparing your wife to your mother. Stop also talking too much about your mother instead of talking about your wife. As a wife stay attractive to your husband. Keep seducing him. Womanhood has a natural power and influence in her gift to seduce a man. A good and godly husband never raises his voice or finger against his wife. Play together always and stay romantic. Pray together to stay together. This is where your power lies. Prophesy on each other and declare the purposes of God about your marriage and lives. Have a vision for your marriage and family. Do not just exist. What you sow is what you get. Sow to your spouse what you want to get from them. The wife’s submission to her own husband is a position of power, authority and influence. It is not a position of weakness.  A submissive wife is a powerful wife. When you love your wife and honour her, she will respect you. When you respect and honour your husband he will love you unconditionally. Affirm, praise, touch and kiss your wife daily, even if you do not feel like. Men by nature are work-oriented, while women are relationship oriented. Understand this. Men love sex. Women love relationships. Many conflict over this. Men should try not to misunderstand women over this. It’s not always about sex. It’s about a relationship. Your marriage is about you. It’s not about pleasing everyone. It’s not about other people’s opinions too. Marriage is a journey of love and love never fails. Marriage does not fail. People fail and blame it on marriage. Your spouse is your assignment. Make sure you do your assignment daily. One of your core duties is to protect your spouse from your relatives and all other war mongers. In any conflict, your spouse is not the problem and you are not the problem either. Learn to identify the problem and deal with it as a team. Believe in your spouse. Love believes all things. Trust your spouse. Do not compete with them. Always complement each other. Always be the best spouse you can be. To do this, invest in yourself and in your spouse. Do not compare your spouse with other men or women. It is utter foolishness to do so. Believe that your spouse is the best. Always seek and desire the best for your spouse. Bring the best out of your spouse. You are responsible for your spouse. I have said this in the past that marriage is the most beautiful of all human relationships. I am talking about marriage, a holy relationship between a concerting man and woman. Its beauty comes from the God factor in it. It is holy and beautiful. I will not be wrong to say that as we celebrate our anniversary, may you find it in your hearts too, to reflect also and celebrate yourselves. Beloved, your marriage can be the best you can make. You can make it. It’s all up to you. Resolve to put away all the dividers and stressors and build your relationship.  We wish you all the best and we pray that your marriage will be exciting, even as you celebrate the festive season. All the best to you all. You are free to follow us on our Facebook, twitter and blogs for more information and ideas. You can also invite us to your seminars or attend our seminars.  We desire being a blessing to the family on this continent. You can also get our books from our online store at www.kiltonmoyoinspirations.com Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment programme and is pastor, counsellor and author of Marriage Fitness. Call or whatsap on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103  citizenafricafoundation@gmail.com. 