WORKERS in Bulawayo have predicted a bleak Christmas holiday due to a severe liquidity crunch coupled with skyrocketing commodity prices and high unemployment levels. BY MTHANDAZO NYONI Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions (ZCTU) western region chairperson, Ambrose Sibindi, told Southern Eye yesterday that workers in the country’s second largest city were facing a miserable Christmas. “Workers have nothing to look forward to in the festive season because they don’t have money. Our survey showed that a number of companies didn’t award their workers bonuses,” he said. “Some employers still owe workers large sums of money, while others are underpaying them. As such, workers have nothing to cheer about. There is no money in banks and people are spending most of their time queuing for money.”   Sibindi said during the course of the year they have received reports of workers who lost their jobs through retrenchments. “We have had workers who were retrenched and some having their working days cut. On the other hand, prices of basic commodities are increasing on a daily basis, thereby, making lives of workers unbearable,” he said.  Going into the year 2018, Sibindi said they expect the government to improve the economy and resolve the liquidity crisis in the country.  “People are hoping that those companies that were closed would be reopened. Government should also change policies that hurt business,” he said. With the economy having worsened considerably this year largely characterised by an acute cash shortages, company closures and substantial job losses, most Zimbabweans are facing a bleak festive season. Those employed in the formal sector are going home without being paid their salaries, as companies struggle to raise funds due to viability challenges.  Those who have money in the banks also face a miserable Christmas, as they struggle to access their cash due to the severe liquidity crunch.  The number of people sleeping in bank queues has risen dramatically in the past week, as poor Zimbabweans struggle to withdraw the little available cash.