The Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) and other security services say they have noted with concern a disturbing trend from a few misguided members of the public, who are engaging in counter-productive acts of vengeful retribution against perceived political elements. ZBC News In a joint statement, ZDF director public relations Colonel Overson Mugwisi and Zimbabwe Republic Police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba said there were individuals and groups who were continuing to organise unsanctioned retribution-related demonstrations contrary to the spirit of the new political dispensation. “Members of the public are warned against seeking the services of the ZDF to settle old personal scores taking advantage of the ongoing Operation Restore Legacy. Such cases are clearly a violation of the law,” the statement read. They said there were also some malicious individuals abusing social media to generate and circulate inflammatory content that potentially causes unnecessary alarm and despondency within the defence and security services “with the ultimate objective of disturbing the prevailing peace and stability in the country”. “In this regard, members of the public are warned against such acts of political retribution targeting fellow Zimbabweans,” they said. Mugwisi and Charamba said such conduct was prohibited as per President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s inaugural speech of November 24, 2017. They said investigations were underway as information had it that some impostors masquerading as ZDF members were creating some of the video footage that was being circulated on social media. Mugwisi and Charamba refuted social media messages suggesting that the defence forces were planning to raid brothels, food vendors and related illegal ventures, saying the responsibility of law enforcement remained in the hands of the police and local authorities enforcement systems. “The general public is advised to be wary and expect more of these falsehoods peddled by individuals with malicious intentions,” they said. The statement further said members of the defence forces deployed across the country were under strict instructions to remain vigilant and professional in the discharge of their duties during the ongoing operation and
beyond. The public has also been advised to report any untoward or suspicious behaviour by any member of the defence forces and other security services.