“Money is friendly to a free society and it flees from madness”: A response to one Eric Knight, in defence of the MDC Alliance!  By Roy Muroyi The issue of the MDC Alliance calling for the extension of sanctions doing the rounds in the State and private media boggles the mind. It is unbelievable how ignorant we can be as Zimbabweans, a so-called learned people.  Over the 37 years, Zanu PF has reduced us from being political players to more political alarmists and re-actionists. We dismally fail to deduce meaning on simple political matters because we are hungry and desperate. We are so desperate for a better life such that we accept anything that the “master” throws at us.  This is how Zanu PF capitalism has managed to deal with us for all these years and yet the whole world wonders “but these people claim to be educated”. The education we might have, but we have been made hungry, we are suffering under the shackles of Zanu PF capitalism. Knight’s views on a piece he scribbled on social media represent the generality of Zimbabweans’ views on the subject matter! “The MDC Alliance calls for extension of sanctions”. This implies that the MDC Alliance is calling for the peoples’ suffering, how ironic! For the past 37 years the MDC and other political parties have been calling for former President Robert Mugabe and Zanu PF to go! What they have been calling for was the entire Zanu PF system that is enshrined in corruption, unconstitutionality, illegitimacy, lack of transparency, and patronage to fall.   A Zanu PF factional battle resulted in the intervention of the military as well as ordinary Zimbabweans (including the MDC Alliance) and insured that Mugabe resigned. The new President got into power, assured the nation that the glory days are coming and that democracy was going to prevail.  The first thing the new President did once in power was to go back to the old doctrine of patronage, selecting the very same failed ministers that have failed the economy for the past 37 years.  Again patronage was realised through his militarisation of the Cabinet, appointing army personnel to ministerial positions, a move clearly indicating the President’s gratitude to the army for showing their loyalty to him. Zimbabweans raised alarm to this effect, but the swearing in ceremony went ahead.  People like special adviser to the President, Christopher Mutsvangwa even went to the extent of spreading lies that the MDC Alliance was invited into the Cabinet. Finance minister Patrick Chinamasa described the whole transitional move as a Zanu PF internal issue and still the President did not call him to order if he was wrong in his sentiments. The MDC Alliance up to this day has got cadres that are imprisoned for “political crimes” under Mugabe’s regime, the new government has not said a word about their possible release.  The Dzamara family through Itai’s brother Partson is still calling for the President to investigate the whereabouts of their brother, even after Partson petitioned the President, no response has been given.  The MDC Alliance has called for a national healing process and a move by the government to fix the Gukurahundi issue that continues to haunt the nation up to this day and the new government keeps  silencing the people on this issue because the new President himself was directly involved.   As we speak Knight, the so-called “G40 criminals surrounding the President (Mugabe)”, arrested by the army are on the verge of release and could be seen nicely clad in regalia inscribed “Mnangagwa” the new President’s initials, so tell us Knight in all  of this Zimbabweans should just watch and let the old Zanu PF system take its course, while we hope that the “masters”  will deliver their promise?   The government has made it clear that the army will not return to their barracks until elections, this is a clear indication that the new government has no intentions whatsoever to give power to the winner of the elections in the event they lose.  It could also hint to possible voter intimidation and rigging, already cases have surfaced of soldiers beating up and harassing innocent civilians in the streets.  Are we going to wait for them to commit another “moment of madness” as they did in Matabeleland before we take action? The MDC Alliance did not go abroad to call for sanctions as alleged by the media. The issue here is the issue of electoral reforms and making sure that there are checks and balances within the new administration.  In order for us to go back to legitimacy the voices of the people must be heard and this can only happen through a free and fair elections, and as it is right now the conditions in the country indicate otherwise and no measures are being put in place to this effect.  It is unfortunate that the gospel of sanctions is the only gospel that Zanu PF has used in its defence for the past 37 years. Mr Knight, please talk to your President to respect the Constitution, human rights, create a conducive environment for free and fair elections, demilitarise the Cabinet, stop patronage, release political prisoners, and just do the right thing then Zimbabwe will have investors and we won’t go hungry.  It is a general principle that we cannot run away from that democracy brings prosperity. Money is friendly to a free society, it also flees from madness.   Let us challenge the government to do the right thing and see if the MDC Alliance can win, in “extending sanctions to Zimbabwe”! The MDC Alliance if free to engage with the west  and does not need approval from Zanu PF to do so! Aluta Continua! Roy Muroyi is a pro-democracy promoter who also believes in youth emancipation and participation in all facets of governance. 