RETIRED Supreme Court Judge Roger Korsah has died. He was 89. by STAFF REPORTERAccording to information given to the Judicial Service Commission by his wife Sheila Korsah, the retired judge passed away in Johannesburg, South Africa, around 6pm last Saturday. He had gone there for medical attention. Korsah was cremated on Wednesday and arrangements are under way to hold a memorial service at his Harare home next Saturday.He is survived by his wife, Sheila, and six children, one of whom is a practicing obstetrician and gynaecologist in Harare. The late Korsah s father was Sir Kobina Arku Korsah, who was the first black Chief Justice of Ghana, then the Gold Coast, in 1956. According to family friend and former mayor of Harare Muchadeyi Masunda, the late Korsah followed in his father&#8217;s footsteps and became a judge of the High Court in Ghana in 1976. In 1982, he found himself with no choice but to leave Ghana following the killing of three of his fellow High Court judges, Justice Fred Poku Sarkodie, Justice Cecilia Koranteng-Addow and Justice Kwadwo Agyei Agyepong, at the behest of Ghana&#8217;s military ruler, Flight Lieutenant Jerry John Rawlings, the Chairman of the Provisional National Defence Council, said Masunda.The three judges were abducted at night and brutally executed at the Bundase Military Range in Accra. Their bodies were reportedly doused with petrol and set ablaze.Korsah then went through Togo, Benin, Nigeria and the UK before coming to Zimbabwe where he resumed his illustrious judicial career as a judge of the High Court in Bulawayo from 1983. During the late 1980s, he moved to Harare following his elevation to the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe where he served with distinction under the then Chief Justice Anthony Gubbay, until his retirement in November 1997.He remained one of the most sought-after commercial arbitrators in Zimbabwe through the Commercial Arbitration Centre in Harare. He also served for a number of years as Zimbabwe&#8217;s nominee on the Comesa Court of Justice.