No one wants to fail in life. SUCCESS LIFE: JONAH NYONIWe all wish it was easy, but it has never been like that. The process of success is inseparable from failure. Failure is the reality of life. The road to greatness is decorated and dotted by failure.So the decision is entirely dependent on an individual to choose what they want to see.At times, we stop at failure and we think it is the dead end. Powerful testimonies or stories have come from people that have failed, when they tried again. When you fail, the most important thing is the inner story you tell yourself. I am motivated by this letter below: Dear brothers and sisters, when troubles come your way, consider it an opportunity for great joy. For you know that when your faith is tested, your endurance has a chance to grow. So let it grow, for when your endurance is fully developed, you will be perfect and complete, needing nothing. (James 1:2-4 Holy Bible, New Living Translation).We have to see things differently. Change the state of your mind. Instead of seeing an obstruction, you have to see an instruction. When you hit a brick wall don t think that s the dead end of the road. Failure is the most powerful tool we can use, but it depends on how we use it. You could use is to self-destruct or to self-instruct.The best is to learn to fail fast and fail forward, because we are going to face failure anywhere. Fear of failure creates belief systems that shape your sub-conscious mind, which then affect actions and even influences our future. Some of my worst memories are during my school days when I failed and other students jeered, sneered and booed me. I have carried those memories into adulthood, but I have not allowed them to affect me.Why do we fail? I realised that most of the times I failed because I didn&#8217;t have the capacity yet.Secondly, I didn t have the right or relevant skill. At times, we lack the right tools, techniques and tutelage. When we do things out of season, we fail. At times we become involved with wrong partners. The simplest way to fail is just violating working principles. Finally, at times we just fail.How to overcome failure?Change your belief systemsIf you expect the best you will get the best. The Study.com website says: A belief system is an ideology or set of principles that helps us to interpret our everyday reality. This could be in the form of religion, political affiliation, philosophy, or spirituality, among many other things. These beliefs are shaped and influenced by a number of different factors. Our knowledge on a certain topic, the way we were raised, and even peer pressure from others can help to create and even change our belief systems. The convictions that come from these systems are for us to make sense of the world around us and to define our role within it. Belief systems are something that affect our everyday lives.When our belief systems about failure are imbalanced, we get the worst in life. James Allen wrote: &#8220;You become as large as your controlling desire; or as great as your dominant aspiration.&#8221; Don t let failure be the controlling force. Jesus Christ said if you believe, all things are possible. (Mark 9:23). Have positive belief systems.Change your approachI learnt this from my science teacher, who said, if you keep doing the same thing, expecting a different result this is called insanity. Just change the way you do things and life will change. Change those habits, thoughts, actions, beliefs and emotions that fuel your failure.Change your attitudeAttitude is everything. Attitude determines how you feel in face of failure.Attitude determines how you win in business and in relationship. Don t be negative about failure, use it to your advantage. John C Maxwell says: Our attitude is the primary force that will determine whether we succeed or fail. Change your response to failureThe way you feel, is not a result of what is happening around you, but your interpretation of what is happening. So, how you respond to failure is very personal.Double the rate of your failureWe double that through massive action. Thomas J Watson, the former president of IBM, said: If you want to increase your success rate, double your failure rate. This statement by Winston Churchill pains me in most instances, but it s so true. He says: Success is stumbling from failure to failure with no loss of enthusiasm. Change your focusAnthony Robbins says: Where focus goes, energy flows. Change focusing on what you are to what you want to be. What you think about, you bring about. Life is a manifestation of what goes on in your head. Your outer world corresponds to your inner world.Fuel your fear with faithFaith is that inner fire that lifts you from failure to success. It is that force, which informs you that there is something bigger in life despite your current realities. It is the currency we use to get things from the unseen divine power.Enrichment of selfWhen you fail, you have to do something about it. You have to learn every time you fail. Wisdom is when you derive lessons from failure.Forgive yourselfAt times, we limit ourselves with self-blame. You might have made a mistake, but you have to get back your life. Free yourself and be happy. Yes, you messed up, but why should you die on the grave of self-blame. Forgive yourself of these five things: blame, shame, guilt, regret and angerParting point: Failing is not falling, but staying down is. You might have lost everything, but it s time to dust yourself and get up. Don t mind what people say. As long as there is still breath in you, there is an opportunity to start all over again. I want you to press your reset button and start all over again. To get yourself back, think of these five things:Look up: to God for strength to get up from failure and for your success.Look inside: Great potential is locked inside you. Arison Swett Marden says: Deep within man dwell those slumbering powers; powers that would astonish him, that he never dreamed of possessing; forces that would revolutionise his life if aroused and put into action. Look ahead: The future is replete with possibilities, as long as you utilise your now .Look beyond: Look beyond your limitations and past failures.Look besides: For partnerships that going to help you win. These are; advisors, coaches,mentors and modellers. I would love to coach you to greater heights and help you change your story. Get in touch.Jonah Nyoni is an author, success coach and leadership trainer. He is the author of Inspiration for Success and Success Within Reach. Email: jonah@classicmail.co.za. Twitter @jonahnyoni</strong>