Premier Soccer League football giants, Highlanders, are unfazed by new signing Roderick Mutuma s tainted disciplinary record. BY FORTUNE MBELERodreck MutumaThe former Dynamos striker signed for Highlanders this week after he was dismissed at the Harare giants over lack of discipline.Bosso are looking forward to success with the lanky striker and have not concerned themselves with his past. We don t care about what happened at his previous clubs. Actually, we are not aware and that is not our concern.We have our own rules and what is of concern to us is that he is now a Highlanders player, the team s technical adviser, Cosmas Zulu, said at a Press conference yesterday.Mutuma is in line to make his debut for Bosso when they take on FC Platinum in the Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) Charities semifinals on Sunday.Coach, Erol Akbay, warned that he will not accept delinquency from his players and will not hesitate to get rid of the bad apples. We work as a team and everyone is equally part of the team. If you don t want to be part of the team, its simple, you just go home, he said.Mutuma has a catalogue of disciplinary issues, among them training ground brawls and well as insulting match officials.The player, who had a six-month stint with Caps United in 2015, was dismissed from Dynamos because of disciplinary issues. Akbay was pleased to have Mutuma in his squad and believes the player fits well into their high-tempo approach.Highlanders are also assessing two strikers, Manuel Esono Obiang Buale from Equatorial Guinea and the Democratic Republic of Congo s Tambwe Kalunga.Some of the attackers in the Bosso ranks include King Nadolo, Allen Gahadzikwa, Prince Dube and Ralph Matema.Mutuma will be on the spotlight at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday, where he will make his first appearance in the black and white stripes.There has been a buzz in the City of Kings over Mutuma s arrival, with Bosso having been on the prowl for a prolific hitman, a bill which they believe Mutuma fits well.Club treasurer, Donald Ndebele, yesterday confirmed an unnamed benefactor came up with the signing-on fees and said Highlanders will only be responsible for paying Mutuma s salary and other allowances. His (Mutuma) contract is standard just like any other player. He did not sign a different contract. We have a code of conduct at Highlanders, which every player has to abide by. We did not need to design a specific contract for anyone. What I can confirm is that a benefactor is paying his signing-on fees and Highlanders will be paying his salaries, he said.