THE Chimbetu family seems to be warming up to the late dendera maestro, Simon Chopper Chimbetu s forgotten son , Chamson Boroma, with the latest being Douglas Chimbetu, who has approached the dendera crooner, so they can work together. BY PROBLEM MASAUDouglas ChimbetuDouglas, who has found the going tough in music industry, is contemplating dissolving his own band, so that he can join forces with Boroma.Boroma has since confirmed that Douglas approached him with the proposal to unite. It is true that Douglas has approached me with the intent of working with me. I am humbled because he is a talented man and above all, he is my brother. After listening to my album, he believes we can go places together, he said.Douglas said there was nothing sinister in family members working together. It is a family issue, but I am not at liberty to divulge the coalition details yet, he said.Boroma said the road had been tougher for him after the disclosures that he was Chopper s love child. People frowned at me. They thought I wanted to ride on Simon s success, but the truth is I am his son, he said. I am happy that my music is now being played on radio stations and people are starting to appreciate it. Boroma said Douglas overtures came at the right time, when his band was transforming into a professional outfit, after approaching Japhet Nyamuchengwa to become their manager. I have just released a new album titled Tinochema Navo and I also have a new manager, who is now running the affairs of the band, he said.The album came after the relatively successful Wrong Turn, which claimed third position on Star FM Sungura End of Year Charts, ahead of Sulumani Chimbetu s Nyuchi and Tryson Chimbetu s Vhura Goni last year.The new manager, Nyamuchengwa, said he decided to work with Boroma because he was humble and goal-oriented. We have assembled a good team, acquired musical equipment and released a good album expected to take the musician to some greater heights, he said. I am not doing this for business, but I am an ardent fan of the dendera music and I believe Boroma has what it takes to carry over from where the late Simon Chimbetu left. Born in 1978, Boroma said he was Chopper s son, but was raised by his mother s relatives.He once worked with his father.