Title: The Elusive Thigh Gap Author: Jeffrey Oscar Mvundusi Publisher: KoMaseko Publishers (2016) ISBN: 978-0-7974-9789-4ONE of the most delightful creative works of literature released last year was, surprisingly, Jeffrey Oscar Mvundusi s The Elusive Thigh Gap. I say surprisingly because, as I point out in my blurb to the text, we are told that the journalist is factual, the poet emotive. Jeffrey bridges the gap here, with a human account of some of the darkest years of Zimbabwean nationality . REVIEWED BY PHILANI A NYONI The creation of the works in Mvundusi s publication spans a 10-year period during, which he even had to be exiled in Namibia. These were dark days in Zimbabwe, with their peak in 2008. A poetry collection does not emerge at once.Poems are gathered over time. This is the strength of the work whose content was created over a period of 10 years, journaling the author s experiences during that time. In A Lost Country, the poet laments being a kwerekwere and weeps over political flames tearing up Africa s bread basket . Written at a time of high political intrigue, starvation, hunger and disease, the poem is a recollection of an ugly time in our history. In a beautiful and simultaneously sad way, it paints, as do most of the poems in the book, a picture of the individual at the centre of upheavals. It puts a face to the crisis, the face of an ordinary man, a civilian.The poetry collected here recalls the heroics of the country s liberators and questions what became of them, if the sacrifice was worth it. Whether or not one agrees with the sentiment echoed, one must commend the author for bringing to light the other, less popular narrative of democracy is an institution of dialogue. John Eppel, writing on Mvundusi s work, says: The poems, shaking with anger, trembling with tenderness, are a notable contribution to the rising tide of young voices that will no longer be suppressed by the stinking armpit of corrupt tyranny. I must concur with his sentiments. I find the work critical but not propagandist, more interrogatory, dialogue of opinion and not didactic. A sample line from the opening of Exile City confirms this: I escaped through the Kazungula eye/Then she giggled and said yes be my love/I was now facing the authorities to which/She traded her thighs as a sacrifice. The excerpt also illustrates the witty construction of the writing, which compels one to take the entire text in one sitting. Observe the personification of country as a woman, harlot rather. She flirts outrageously, but leaves her suitors forlorn or drives them to the wilderness despite their best efforts and her constant promise. She cuckolds her lovers and deserts them for the arms of older men. Where is the climax fore-played in glowing orature?As hard as it might be to stomach all the connotations for some, we must remember to place this in context. Mvundusi was leaving home, into exile, after suffering greatly in the hands of the political establishment. This was at a time of great suppression of the media, whose climax was the bombing of The Daily News within days of the then Information and Publicity minister Jonathan Moyo saying: We will do anything and everything in our power to put the Daily News out of business. The poet and the persona, most likely the same, have come to a deeply disturbing understanding, through encounter, of institutionalised violence. In The Price of Freedom, the persona reflects, The price is known by politicians/They own the keys to your mind/Your mind, their coliseums of violence. With such deep scars, one can understand the strains of the poem, The Last Phoenix, whose heroine recalls Charlotte Corday assassinating Marat in his bath water. It was a huntress bullet/The madam at State House. I am compelled to diagnose Mvundusi s eccentricity (for want of a better word), as a side effect of his professional writing. The discipline required for journalism might peer in his semi-preference for structured verse, but it is discarded in subject and method. The text is an encounter with an individual, who allows himself to fully explore the liberties of literature (art in itself), an institution that observes no sacred cows, despite the constant hanging threat of Fatwah. Literature, among many things, is a tool for addressing the errors of leadership. In the ancient days the fierce Shaka could be scolded and reprimanded by the poet, having chosen his words wisely of course and the culture prevails, or at least should. The true patriot protects his country from enemies, both foreign and domestic. If Mvundusi had written propaganda I would have been quick to lash at him.Literature, from the cradle and the fireside stories of grandmothers, also serves as a tool for warning and moral education, often through allegory. Texts such as this are very welcome. They will serve us well in future not to repeat the mistakes of the past. Davirai Mashava notes that Mvundusi s poetry mirrors present day Zimbabwe. He lays bare the despondency, deprivation and disease running riot in our midst . Perhaps this time we inhabit is the future, we should be correcting, a future recoiling to a venomous past.It is not all gloom and bloodletting between these pages. The poet remains hopeful about the future, and with his poet s eye, see the honest skies are clearing . Whether this be a personal or national reflection is unclear, but that is the beauty of good poetry, the open-ended interpretation it allows. Perhaps it is a prayer for our country, that as thunder torments the sky, as the rainy season persists, the rains will soon trickle/To romance our thirsty lands/Memories of that spell remain/She will be laid to rest/After the floods. 