FIFA president Gianni Infantino has pledged support for the Zimbabwe Football Association (Zifa) aimed at developing the sport in the country. BY HENRY MHARAFifa president Gianni Infantino speaks at a Press conference in Harare yesterdayInfantino arrived in the country on Thursday on a historic visit to discuss football development projects and also to attend Zifa president, Philip Chiyangwa s belated 58th birthday celebrations held on the night of his arrival.The Fifa boss, who left the country last night, having paid a courtesy call on President Robert Mugabe at State House earlier in the day, was accompanied by the association s secretary-general, Fatima Samoura to Harare.Addressing the media after his meeting with Sports minister, Makhosini Hlongwane, Infantino said he was happy with the projects that Zifa and the government are setting up to develop football in the country.Hlongwane said his ministry is spearheading the establishment of 8 000 clubs across the country for all sport codes at grassroots level, while Zifa wants to construct a world-class football academy. I m happy and proud to be in Zimbabwe. We came here to celebrate the birthday of the Zifa president, but more importantly to discuss football and concrete projects. We are here to serve football, and we are here with concrete actions and programmes to change the landscape of football, Infantino said. This is why I m happy with the ministry s very ambitious project that the government has put in place in setting up 8 000 clubs throughout the whole country. This would have a huge impact in football in the country. From the Fifa point of view, we are in full support of the project, which covers the whole country and the whole grassroots football development. Infantino defended Fifa s decision to expand the number of participants at the World Cup from 32 countries to 48, saying it would benefit continents like Africa.Africa has five slots at the global showcase, but the number is set to double. We have been able to take a decision as the Fifa council, which was actually unanimous, and we have been able to convince everyone that actually it s a good thing to increase the number of teams at the World Cup. Of course, there are a few voices that are critical, but when you are elected to a position and you believe in something, then you have to listen to everyone and try to shape your proposal. You listen to everyone then you decide because you are responsible, and we have made the decision which I think is good for football development and particularly good news for Africa because the number of teams from Africa will increase. The precise number is still being discussed and debated between the different confederations. I don t want to speculate about any particular number, but the good news is there will be more teams participating and more teams dreaming to participate. More countries in the world will start to invest now, like Zimbabwe, with an idea and a plan, and a realistic chance to be able to participate in the world s biggest sporting competition. Infantino was asked about the Confederations of African Football (Caf) elections, after reports emerged that his visit to Zimbabwe was a show of support for Caf presidential aspirant Ahmad Ahmad of Madagascar, who along with other FA presidents, attended Chiyangwa s bash.Ahmad will come up against Caf incumbent, Issa Hayatou in an election set for March 16 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. When it comes to the election of the Caf presidency that is going to take place, it s up to the Caf members to put their own president. It s not up to the Fifa president to decide. Whatever Caf members will decide, in their own autonomy, in their own democratic mindset, would be the right decision and as Fifa we will support whatever the decision, Infantino said. The Italian said they had increased financial support to Africa from $27 million to $94 million, although it would be given with a condition. They should stick to strict compliance and good governance criteria. It s not about giving somebody support because he is my friend or that of the secretary-general, they have to fulfil a certain number of a set-out criteria. 