There s a general misconception among some misinformed circles that the grace message is powerless. DEVOTION: Erasmus MakarimayiIt s so clear that Christ is the power of God and His wisdomSome erroneously assume that preaching grace leaves demons terrorising believers. Before we even go further, I want to make it clear that under grace, demons are cast out and never tolerated.The grace message is followed by miracles, signs and wonders. Ignorance of this has led na ve followers to jump all over the show looking for deliverance having already been delivered by the grace of God. Over the centuries, cults have surfaced misleading followers pursuing so called power. In this presentation, we shall appraise ourselves of what power is and enjoy our salvation.The Grace of God is the Gospel of Christ, the Good News of Jesus Christ; the Man Christ Jesus; basic knowledge followers of this column are conversant with. Many errors spring out from wrong notion that there are many gospels of Christ. The Gospel of Christ is one. Apostle Paul is at pains throughout his ministry to explain this. Writing to the Galatians in Galatians 1:6, he says: I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel. They had departed from the Gospel. Please take note masquerades can present you another. By the Gospel, hearers are called into grace.The Gospel ushers you into grace and not works. This grace is unearned, undeserved and unmerited. It s God s goodness towards humanity. Apostle Paul goes further. He continues in Galatians 1:7: Which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ. Clearly stated here is that the another is not another. It s a ploy by some to trouble you. Whenever you hear a sermon, please always check if its motive isn&#8217;t to trouble you in order to submit to certain human philosophies. The Bible makes it clear that the another isn t gospel at all, but is a perversion of the Gospel. So, there s no other gospels, but perversion. The Amplified Bible puts it thus, Galatians 1:7: Not that there is [or could be] any other [genuine Gospel], but there are [obviously] some, who are troubling and disturbing and bewildering you [with a different kind of teaching which they offer as a gospel] and want to pervert and distort the Gospel of Christ (the Messiah) [into something, which it absolutely is not]. You were saved by grace and you remain in grace.To hammer his point, Apostle Paul pronounces cursing twice on those preaching perversion.Galatians 1:8-9 records, But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. As we said before, so say I now again, If any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed. This is so clear for us all to see. You may want to know what Apostle Paul preached. 1 Corinthians 15:1-3 gives us insight: Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand; By which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. We will break it down.The Gospel is preached and received. When you receive it you stand. Those running around have not yet received it. I am not against searching for a conducive family of believers to assemble with. The Gospel is the Grace of God and this Grace is Christ Jesus. He is received and, therefore, you stand. You won&#8217;t shake and cannot be fooled by winds of perversion and human philosophies labelled as gospel in order to hoodwink you. Jesus is the power of God. If you received Him, you received power. So the Gospel of Christ, that is, the Grace message isn&#8217;t a weak message, but it is power. It s not just talk but it is Jesus Christ Himself. 1 Corinthians 1:24 settles: But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. It s so clear that Christ is the power of God and His wisdom. So by grace you have been brought into power and wisdom. What more can you ask for? In conclusion, Romans 1:16 strengthens us: For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge.You re going somewhere.