 We will fight fire with fire, every blow is to be avenged with an even sharper knock, every hit to be countered by a boxer s sharp punch. Guest Column: Fr Oskar Wermter SJThis is how the avengers threaten, paying back anger with harsh retribution. Can we eradicate evil with more evil? As a result, malicious evil, violence and destruction will increase. The greater the hatred, the violence, the desire for revenge, the less chance there will be for peace, for bringing war to an end. Abuse will blow up into more abuse, anger will blaze up into an uncontrollable inferno.But then, fire will never put out fire.Will a marriage grow into a love feast just because the husband hits the wife as hard as he can, or the wife screams at him showing her contempt for him? Has force and violence ever blessed the home with peace? Armies rarely vanquish their enemies. More likely, they destroy their foes and themselves as well. War does not solve any problem, a man of peace when military men said, believing in the power of arms of war, asked him to bless them and their guns and rockets. We will fight fire with fire, does not lead us anywhere. It is foolish. It ends only in an even more destructive war. Gradually, in our age, great thinkers realise this. One of the most pressing questions facing the world today is: How can we oppose evil without creating new evils and being made evil ourselves? We will not fight hatred with more hatred. Jesus of Nazareth did not believe in revenge, he never thought anger would rebuild ruins. When he was abused, he did not return abuse; when he suffered, he did not threaten (1 Peter 2:23).It has been our misfortune that we had to fight for freedom and independence by threatening, with harsh words and hate speech and by shedding blood and inflicting wounds. Has it brought prosperity, peace, a better life or promoted the common good?What is all the infighting about? What is the point of all the struggles, of all the brawling, screaming and shouting? Who wins, who loses? We do not trust each other. We do not forgive each other. But precisely this mutual trust is the glue that makes us stick together. Fighting fire with fire leaves only a huge heap of ashes, ruins, the remains of burnt bodies.The ruins left after a devastating war should teach us the absurdity of war and destruction. When will we learn the futility of war? When will we stop throwing bodies into wells or mine shafts, when will we stop hiding the victims of our anger, fury and rage? As a young schoolboy, I was forced to walk narrow pathways between frightening skeletons of burnt-out houses. I can no longer believe that anything good can come out of the conflagrations of war and the mutual killing of people caught up in fire and fury. When will we stop repaying the evil of destruction with even more devastation? When will we put out the fire and live in mutual respect, in recognition of our bodily and spiritual integrity, when will we celebrate, joyfully, the gifts with which our Lord and Creator is blessing us?When we resist evil, we become even more destructive. Fighters and warriors protecting their home village end up causing even greater devastation. But reaching out to old neighbours and friends may lead to a gesture of peace and reconciliation, whereas, arms of war, guns and firepower may finally result in even greater evil, and turn us into even more violent people.Tolerance and patience creates space for a new beginning.Peace is so much more precious; there is nothing better than a round-table talk. Fighting fire with fire may end in disaster, and not at the heroes acre. Embrace your enemy and never depart from his path. The closer you walk with him, the more likely you are to find his friendship. After war and turmoil, what do we need more than his companionship? You burn down your neighbour s house, and he burns down yours. Where will it all end? Will evil free us from evil, hatred from even greater hatred? What we need is not old veterans proud of yesterday, but young men and women looking forward to building a new country, and ready to join forces for the common good of all of us. Don t be proud of your fire eating fire . Much better that a deluge drowns the flames and torrents of water clear the air once more for us to breathe. While so many emigrate to countries, where they are not welcome and treated with contempt by the sheer arrogance of the America First campaign, would it not be better to stay at home, where our solidarity, mutual understanding and team spirit is needed? Do you want us to bring fire down from heaven? Fire from heaven to put out fire on earth? Do not repay evil for evil or abuse for abuse; but, on the contrary, repay with a blessing (1 Peter 3:9).Disarm your enemy with your love and respect. Hatred is powerless in restoring our humanity.Evil in our hearts can never be burnt to ashes by a blazing hatred. Who needs fire when the house is burning already? Fr Oskar Wermter SJ is a social commentator. He writes in his own capacity.