HARARE Caps United will welcome Zamalek in the 2017 Caf Champions League Group B match at the National Sports Stadium in Harare tomorrow, with the Zimbabwean champions hoping to overcome a disappointing 2-0 defeat to Yadah FC in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League on Tuesday. supersport.comLloyd ChitembweTuesday s loss to the Premiership new boys was the Green Machine s second consecutive defeat, having also lost 4-2 to Libyan side Al Ahli Tripoli in their last Group A match, which was played in Tunisia.United are fourth on the Group B standings with three points. They are four points behind the group leaders USM Alger from Alger with two matches left.Lloyd Chitembwe, the United head coach, has been under pressure because of the Green Machine s poor results.However, United s chief executive officer, Cuthbert Chitima remains hopeful that the team can still advance to the knockout stages. Of course, we may have lost some of our matches in the Champions League, but right now we are telling our supporters that we haven t thrown in the towel, he said. We are still in the race. If we can win on Sunday and then hope for another positive result in our last match we could still make it. It s not over yet for us. Meanwhile, Zamalek are oozing with confidence after beating Petrojet 2-0 in the Egyptian Premier League match at the Petrosport Stadium on Tuesday.The Egyptian giants returned to winning ways, as they had lost 2-0 to Alger in a Group A match, which was played in Algeria over a week ago.As a result, the White Knights are third on the Group A standings, with five points. They are only two points behind group leaders, Alger.Zamalek, who have won the Champions League five times, could go to the top of the group table if they beat United and the other result goes their way.Khaled Galal, the Zamalek football director, is confident that the White Knights will overcome the Green Machine on Sunday. All the players are fully focused, we will come back from Harare winners, Galal was quoted as saying by Zamalek s official website.Referee, Helder Martins de Carvalho, who hails from Angola, will be in charge of the match between United and Zamalek in Zimbabwe.Kick-off is at 3pm.