This is my last instalment on the subject of family leadership, at least for now. Relationships: Kilton MoyoI am happy about the responses from some of our readers and it is our prayer that the family might enjoy effective and visionary leadership, so that it achieves its Godly purpose. We, as parents, need to be intentional about building families that will glorify God.After all, we enjoy a lot of pride when our family members do well and succeed. However, our biggest challenge in this generation is keeping and maintaining the relevance and the function of the family amidst the seemingly brutal onslaught on families.The world is out to redefine the family and create a monster to serve every satanic scheme you can think of. It is upon this that we want to encourage the family to get back to basics and be what God created it to be. Leadership, therefore, is crucial and critical to achieving this kind of mission, the family mission.I am hopeful the leadership ideas we shared with you in the past weeks will be helpful. We said leadership is relationships. Family is about relationships, as human beings, life is about relationships. You cannot successfully run a family without creating relationships with your team. We said leadership is presence. Leaders must be present. Most families suffer from the effects of absent leaders. We also said leadership is participation. A good family leader brings everyone to a point of participating in all that the family does. Such families, who work together, survive and are winners. Today we want to add another theme for family leadership.Leadership is planningYou cannot lead if you cannot plan. Without a plan, you cannot take your family to where it should go or where it should be. One of the biggest tragedies in the African family is lack of planning. Those in leadership positions in the family do not plan and expect fate to guide them. This is a tragedy.Most families are run on an ad hoc basis. They are reactionary to circumstances. They derive their nature and actions depending on what circumstance have befallen them. They are never prepared or ready for anything. They just exist. This is poor leadership. Maybe what needs to be done is holding massive family leadership training seminars or workshops all over Africa. The family must have order and shape. It is leadership that must bring about these.I am aware that many of us have burial societies and funeral policies and a few with medical aid schemes. This is fine and I am well with it, although my concern is that we seem to be so prepared for death more than life itself. We are good in planning for death and so reckless in planning for living and living intentionally. This is the aspect of planning that I desire to see. Why not have a plan in place for responding to family emergencies. Every family will have people who get sick now and again and who do not have medical aid. Every family will have people without fees for their children, you will have people without food. This cannot be an emergency, it is obvious. Have you witnessed a situation where one falls ill and relatives have to run around looking for help and borrowing money?What if, as a family, you sit down, plan and create your own emergency fund? It is staying ready for the obvious, as much as you have the burial society, which is not for illness, education or healing, but for death.I am yet to see a burial society that has a budget for healing or sending people to hospital. I think the family has to be always clear on its intentions and on its functions. This planning could be done at extended family level or at individual family level, so you are able to assist and be a blessing.In order to be a blessing to others, you need a plan of action. You need to be purposeful. I can assure you that with good planning, families will draw closer to each other and will not run away whenever there is an emergency in the family.I always marvel at the father in Luke 15, in the story of the prodigal son. I know we look at the boy s naughtiness only, but don t you think the father had a good plan?The fact that the boy could ask for his share of inheritance might mean that the father had planned for it before and communicated to the sons. He was always ready with their shares and that is why he gave to him. I am sure he also had a fall back plan for the other son. The challenge with us African fathers is that we do not plan inheritance when we are alive. We leave it until we are dead. Believe it or not, I have seen many families destroyed once the leader dies, as siblings fight over the inheritance. I do not blame them, but the leader, who never planned accordingly. I know you might scoff at this, but this is the truth. Plan your things now and be clear. Does it kill for any father to call his offspring and give them what is theirs, so that when he is gone there is peace at home? I am not sure about you, but I think planning works.What have I been saying to you beloved these past weeks? Lead the family well. Your family is your flock, which God has given you. Remember you will have to account to God about your family. Take this seriously, you are on duty to lead your family unto Godliness and Holiness so you can present it to God with joy. Let leaders arise from the families in Africa. Plan.Follow us on all our media channels and call us or write to us. You can also read our book Marriage Fitness or any of our eight books. They are available online. At Fruitful Marriages we offer you very sound, practical, relevant and restoring coaching and counselling on marriage, family, sexuality and relationships. We are available seven days a week. Invite us or attend our meetings.Kilton Moyo is creator of Fruitful Marriages, a renewal and enrichment programme and is pastor, counsellor and author of Marriage Fitness. Call or whatsapp on +263 775 337 207, +263 772 610 103 or kilton.citizenafrica@consultant.com