FORMER Gwanda mayor and MDC national executive member, Lionel De Necker has died aged 41 after succumbing to an undisclosed illness. By NQOBANI NDLOVULionel De NeckerGwanda Residents Association (GRA) general secretary, Bekezela Maduma Fuzwayo described De Necker s death as a huge loss for the town. De Necker shall for long remain in the memories of the people of Gwanda for several attributes, top of which is for emerging, as the youngest mayor in the history of the town, assuming mayorship at 32. His worship, De Necker will also be remembered for his selfless and uncompromising service to the people of Gwanda which equivocally led to him being prematurely removed from the mayoral office by the minister of Local Government, Fuzwayo said in a message of condolences.Former Local Government minister Ignatius Chombo suspended De Necker in 2012 for allegedly refusing to appoint a suspected Zanu PF sympathiser, Priscilla Nkala, as the town s chamber secretary. The minister accused the late De Necker of insubordination by defying his orders. He challenged his suspension at the High Court, but without success. De Necker may today rest peacefully knowing that in term in his office, he led and left behind one of the best councils to emerge out of Gwanda. The death of De Necker has indeed left a huge cloud hanging over the people of Gwanda some of whom still had a hope of seeing the young De Necker pursue his political leadership and representation to greater heights and one day stand in the highest possible places standing for the people of Gwanda, Fuzwayo said.Gwanda mayor, Knowledge Ndlovu said: It s a huge loss. He will be greatly missed by Gwanda. It s just one those unfortunate incidents and we extend our deepest condolences to the family. MDC deputy national spokesperson, Mbuso Siso noted: He was a man of principle and unassuming character, who always left a special mark with all those he interacted with. We shall remember him for his unequivocal commitment and dedication to the service of his people, particularly in the southern region. His efforts in the pursuit for the realisation of devolution of power shall forever be valued. 