WINNING the Castle Lager Player of the Month for April has lifted Bantu Rovers skipper, Bukhosi Sibanda s confidence ahead of the big clash against city neighbours, Highlanders, in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow. BY FORTUNE MBELEBukhosi SibandaBantu Rovers rested last weekend, as their game against Caps United was postponed and they face Highlanders, following their thumping of Yadah FC 7-2 at Luveve, in which Sibanda grabbed a hat-trick.The treble landed Sibanda at the summit of the top goalscorers chat. I am very pleased and give glory to God. I would have not done it without my teammates, he said. The award comes at the right time and it s a good motivation ahead of the Highlanders match. Highlanders are one of the biggest clubs in the country, but we are prepared. We go there and execute our usual game plan; nothing more and nothing less. The former Under-20 Young Warriors skipper said he makes sure that he exploits all the chances that come his way. If you get chances in football, you just have to utilise them and that is what I have been doing and it is going on well so far, the midfielder said. We come in as underdogs against Highlanders, but we are not under any pressure. We are just going to play our normal game and the result will take care of its self. Sibanda picked up the Castle Lager monthly gong alongside Ngezi Platinum Stars coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, who was voted the Coach of the Month for April.Ngezi Platinum picked up 10 points from three wins and a draw last month, losing to Yadah FC and Highlanders.They have won their two matches in May, beating Shabanie Mine and Harare City and head to Nyamhunga Stadium on Sunday for a date with ZPC Kariba.Meanwhile, Bantu Rovers are hoping to use United States-based striker, Ezra Siyadhuba for the match against Highlanders.Siyadhuba, who took part in the Dallas Cup for Bantu Rovers alongside Warriors players, Kuda Mahachi and Marvelous Nakamba and FC Platinum s Nqobizitha Masuku and Chicken Inn s Teenage Hadebe, is in the country on holiday and renewed his contract with Tshintsha Guluva, who are keen to have him play for them while he is on a break from university in the US.Wilbert Sibanda, Bantu Rovers general manager, confirmed that they had submitted papers for the 23-year-old forward to the PSL for registration. He [Siyadhuba] started training with the team and we have submitted all the papers for registration. I think it s now up to the coaches to make their decision on whether he is fit to compete this weekend, he said. Administratively, we have done our part. The PSL confirmed that they have received the papers and we completed the online registration, but we are yet to receive his licence. We are expecting it anytime from now. 