HIGHLANDERS . . . . . . . . . .(0)1 NGEZI PLATINUM . . . . . . . . . 0Despite struggling for form Simon Munawa emerged hero as Highlanders picked up an important Castle Lager Premier soccer league win against a plucky Ngezi Platinum Stars in a match played at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELEWhen Bosso coach Erol Akbay introduced Ralph Matema for Allen Gahadzikwa in the 69th minute, the move was met with derision from fans as they clamoured for Munawa to be hooked off , but the Dutch mentor was vindicated.A short corner by Prince Dube to captain Rahman Kutsanzira who sent in a cross which was met by Munawa who deftly guided the ball with a header to the far post to beat goalkeeper Neslon Chadya.Akbay was happy, but conceded the visitors had given them a tough time. The tempo was not high enough today. I am happy with the three points, but it was not an easy game. Munawa was bad especially at defending particularly in the second half, but was better in the second half but like I have always said, you never know what he will do, Akbay said.Highlanders are now on 12 points after five matches.Ngezi skipper Liberty Chakoroma, Walter Mukanga, Dominic Mukandi had the better of the Highlanders midfield, with the hosts depending more on counter-attacks and creating most of the chances.Ngezi Platinum gaffer Tonderai Ndiraya was visibly disappointed after the match. As a coach you are obviously not happy when your team loses. What is disappointing is that we have gone three games without a win, but my confidence is in that the team is playing well, Ndiraya said.The introduction of Donald Teguru for Mukandi and Tichaona Mabvura and Kenneth Bulaji for Byron Madzokere did not pay any dividends for Ndiraya.Ngezi are now second on the log-standings two points behind Highlanders, but have played six games.TEAMSHIGHLANDERS: A Sibanda, B Phiri, H Moyo, T Ndlovu, P Muduhwa, T Ngulube, R Mutuma (K Nadolo 80 ), S Munawa, P Dube, R Kutsanzira, A Gahadzikwa (R Matema 69 )NGEZI PLATINUM: N Chadya, Q Amini (T Mabura 65 ), B Madzokere (K Bulaji 78 ), T Dzukamanja, W Mukanga, L Chakoroma, D Mukandi (D Teguru 65 ), K Murera, T Mchisa, C Augusto, G Murwira</strong>