HOW MINE . . . . . . . (1) 2 BLACK RHINOS . . . . . (1) 1HOW MINE put an end to Black Rhinos winning streak in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League when they handed them their second defeat of the season in a pulsating encounter at Luveve Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELEBlack Rhinos Lot Chiwunga scores his side s equaliser against How Mine at Luveve Stadium yesterdayToto Banda opened the account as early as the fourth minute for the home side, after some fancy footwork, to beat the soldiers defenders before striking past goalkeeper Herbert Rusawo from the edge of the penalty box.But log leaders Rhinos cancelled that lead a minute from the halftime break through Lot Chiwunga, who connected a cross from overlapping right-back James Mukombwe in a move that involved Milton Kureva.But a timely substitution by How Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu, replacing defensive linkman Marvelous Mukumbi with Tsepo Ranthokoane and young Adolf Muganyi with Peter Moyo, paid dividends for the gold miners as the midfield marshalled by Milton Ncube became more fluid.The Rhinos midfield opened up and Kudakwashe Musharu struck in the 79th minute for the winner, capitalising on a rebound after Ncube s effort had bounced off the upright.With the win, How Mine have now collected 17 points, but remain sixth on the league table.It was a good response from Kaindu s men, who came into the match on the back of a 2-0 defeat to Triangle at the weekend. It is a well-deserved three points. We controlled the match and created a number of chances and for us to reduce the lead on the team that is at the top is good. Our substitution changed the colour of the game, Kaindu said.The gold miners could have scored more goals had it not been for the numerous wasted chances, the main culprits being scorer Banda and Pasca Manhanga.Black Rhinos gaffer, Stanford Mutizwa was disappointed with the result and felt How Mine s clincher had been scored from an offside position.He remained hopeful that they would bounce back from the setback. I am very disappointed, especially after working so hard for the whole week training. But without taking anything from How Mine, they were the better side. We are, however, not demoralised. We go back to the drawing board and maintain the same fighting spirit, he said.Black Rhinos remain the league leaders with 20 points.Meanwhile, Bulawayo City made it two out of two when they defeated visiting Hwange across town at Barbourfields Stadium.Kelvin Madzongwe scored the solitary goal in the 10th minute for the Mandla Mpofu-coached side, who won 2-1 at Tsholotsho at the weekend.The victory saw them moving two places up the ladder to seventh with 14 points, while Hwange are 14th with 10 points.TEAMSHow Mine: M Diya, P Tonha, B Mbiriri, M Sakala, K Chideu, M Mukumbi (T Ranhokoane, 47 ), A Muganyi (P Moyo, 55 ), P Manhanga, K Musharu, T Banda, M NcubeBlack Rhinos: H Rusawo, J Mukombwe, W Chakanyuka, B Homora, S Linyama, T Chigudu (M Mine, 75 ), D Mudadi, C Chitsamba, M Kureva (V Mhandu, 68 ), B Merere (Y Salima, 80 ), L Chiwunga</strong>