Ambassador HotelRenowned local reggae outfit Transit Crew will tomorrow lead a troop of reggae artistes at the Bob Marley commemorations concert at Ambassador Hotel in Harare. COMPILED BY WINSTONE ANTONIOThe commemoration seeks to celebrate the life of the legendary Jamaican musician, who put the reggae genre on the world map. Marley died on May 11, 1981.Machikichori GardensAward-winning comedian Carl Joshua Ncube will today wrap up the four -day creative clinics he was conducting in partnership with one of his long time sponsors iBoard Africa to share knowledge to creatives, artists and entrepreneurs to help them harness opportunities on how to navigate Zimbabwe or export their talents and products internationally.The Volt Nite ClubThe son of the late sungura maestro Tongai Moyo, Peter Young Ingwe backed by his Utakataka Express tonight serenade revellers at The Volt Nite Club in Harare. Tomorrow he takes his act to Club Veritas, formerly Destiny Nite Club in Westlea as he continues to sample some of the new songs off his fourth coming album Mupao Mukonzi to be launched on May 25 at Jazz 24/7 in the capital.Pakare Paye Arts CentreTalented Afro-jazz musician Ashton Tapiwa Nyahora, popularly known as Mbeu on the showbiz circuit backed by his Mhodzi Tribes, tomorrow shares the stage with one of the pioneers of rhumba music in the country, Diamond Musica, at Pakare Paye Arts Centre in Norton.City Sports BarAfter performing at the Zimbabwe Achievers Awards ceremony in United Kingdom last week, dancehall music prodigy Killer T tomorrow performs at City Sports Bar situated along Kaguvi Street in Harare. DJ Cables, DJ Oliver Twist, DJ Stone and Malovers will be rocking it on the turntables.Jazz 24/7Self-proclaimed king of Marabi music Kireni Zulu backed by his new Extra Gear and The Data band tonight perform at Jazz 24/7, formerly Jazz 105 located at corner Sam Nujoma Street and Robson Manyika Avenue. He will be supported by Talking Guitars with Marabi Queens gracing the show as guests. The Mupata Wachidembo hitmaker s comic antics and guitar strumming prowess has seen him performing for the mature audience at most of his shows.Takarangana Night ClubProgress Chipfumo backed by his Sounds of The Motherland tonight share the stage with Sam Dondo and his Impala Subway Crooners at Takarangana Night Club in Hatcliff. Tomorrow Chipfumo takes his act to Club Mandisa in Mutare.Club JoyFormer Jah Prayzah s key dancer and vocalist Pamela Gonyeti Zulu backed by her Hose Power band tonight serenade merrymakers at Club Joy in Glen Norah. Tomorrow the joint will host Clever Musaengana and his Mbeure Kings.The Usual PlaceAward-winning songstress, Selmor Mtukudzi tonight entertains guests at The Usual Place at Jameson Hotel in the capital.Pure Drop Sports Bar and Night ClubRaunchy dancer Beverly Sibanda supported by her Sexy Angels tomorrow serenade merrymakers at Pure Drop Sports Bar and Night Club in Glen View 8. At many of her shows, Bev has a record of leaving male patrons clamouring for more of her sexual dances.Tsungubvi Beer Hall, GlendaleVeteran musician, Leonard Karikoga Zhakata backed by his Zimbabwe All Stars band starts their weekend shows tomorrow with a performance at Tsungubvi Beer Hall in Glendale. Zhakata has been very active since the beginning of the year and away from the club shows, he has been touring various parts of the country on community projects such as the hand-washing project in which he has partnered with Action Aid to promote hygiene in communities.Kimos Bar, ChegutuRising sungura musician Tatenda Pinjisi and The Holy Super Sounds tonight perform at Kimos Bar in Chegutu.Chikangwe Tarven, KaroiSungura musician Romeo Gasa backed by his Extra Valembe band tomorrow travel to Karoi for a performance at Chikangwe Tavern. The Simbi Hombe hitmaker continues to take his latest album Bho Zvekuti to his fans.Pagomba Caf , BeitbridgeAndy Muridzo and Lady Storm will be in a stage romance tomorrow, as they take turns to entertain revellers at Pagomba Caf in Beitbridge. The Dherira hitmaker is staging concerts across the country promoting his latest album Tichambotenderera.Odyssey Hotel, KadomaOdyssey Hotel in Kadoma will tomorrow vibrate to the echoes of dendera and dancehall sounds as Orchestra Dendera Kings fronted by Sulumani Chimbetu share the stage with Soul Jah Love at a potentially exciting show in the mining town.Hartsfield Tshisanyama, BulawayoThe second edition of the annual Bulawayo Music Carnival is on today at Hartsfield Tshisanyama in Bulawayo. The jamboree will see a rich list of local musicians who include Calvin, Simunye Simunye, POY, Mzoe 7, Guluva Se7en, TKP, Asaph, Hwabaraty, DJ Liz, Kontrol Tribe, Djembe Monks and Thabbz gracing the stage. The programme, that has managed to be one of the annual events were local artistes meet and share the stage, will be hosted by Skyz Metro Vuka Vuka breakfast duo of Babongile Sikhonjwa and Khaya Drastiq. Coolland, Nkulumane 12Comedy lovers will be treated to some witty performances from Umahlekisa Comedy Club at the Ekasi comedy show set for tomorrow at Coolland in Nkulumane 12. The Ekasi comedy show is an initiative by Umahlekisa Comedy Club which takes performances to different Kasi (ghettos) around Bulawayo. The initiative started in Luveve before going to Magwegwe now the comics take their acts to Nkulumane.Barbourfields StadiumFootball fans are expected to flock to Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday for the epic match pitting perennial football rivals Highlanders and Harare giants Dynamos. The match usually has its own fair share of entertainment before and during half time by local artistes. Club Connect, BulawayoUrban groover Trevor Dongo will be in Bulawayo tomorrow for a performance at Club Connect. The Ndashamisika hitmaker will share the stage with wheel spinners DJ Prince Eskhosini, Crazy Black and Vanilla who will be rocking it on the decks.