ZIMBABWE S Caf Champions League representatives Caps United will be aiming for perfection particularly at the back when they take on five-time champions Zamalek in a Group B clash of the competition in Alexandria tomorrow night. by KEVIN MAPASURE Caps United players distribute T-shirts at Harare International Airport before their departure for Egypt yesterday.Caps United left Harare yesterday afternoon for Egypt via Ethiopia and are expected to reach their final destination at 2am this morning.It seems coach Lloyd Chitembwe has drilled a blemish-free defensive mentality for his players going into a match they will be more than happy just to avoid defeat.Captain Hardlife Zvirekwi yesterday told NewsDaySport that they would be aiming for a defensive master class against their more illustrious opponents whom they have a lot of respect for but do not fear.He said it will be key for the Green Machine to avoid mistakes and to concentrate from the first to the last whistle.The right full-back said while they are not one of the favourites, the Caps United players carry the burden of responsibility to do well for Zimbabwean football. It s a huge task for us as Caps United, more so as we are looking at it as representatives of Zimbabwe, Zvirekwi said. We are expected to do well, so we have been working hard to try and meet expectations. It will not be easy playing in the African safari, but we want to do well, we are not here to make up numbers, we want to leave a mark. It will be a huge battle, but we want to give it a good fight. It&#8217;s not easy, but I think we will pull through. The experienced and much-travelled defender, who has been a regular in the Warriors set-up, said what will be important for Caps in the Zamalek match are the small details. I have been saying to the other guys who have not played much on the international stage that we do not have to play the occasion, let s play the match, concentrate from minute one to the last, let s try and minimise mistakes and unforced errors such detail we have to take care of. Midfielder Devon Chafa, who saw action in the Champions League with Dynamos, echoed his captain s sentiments and stressed on bravery. Zamalek are a powerhouse, we have to go and put up a brave show and see what rewards we can get, Chafa said. Zamalek are a big team, they are five-time champions so we expect a tough match, but if we apply everything we were taught at training we can get a good result. We just have to concentrate for the entire match; we are playing an organised team so concentration is key. We have said to ourselves let s not give away anything, if they are to get anything let them work for it. That way we give ourselves a good chance. Meanwhile, Zamalek manager Augusto Inacio announced his squad for the encounter against Caps United.Caps squad: Edmore Sibanda, Jorum Muchambo, Hardlife Zvirekwi, Valentine Musarurwa, Devon Chafa, Justice Jangano, Kudzanai Nyamupfukudza, Carlton Mudzambwa, Moses Muchenje, Dominic Chungwa, Phineas Bhamusi, Ronald Pfumbidzai, Tafadzwa Rusike, Abbas Amidu, Cabby Kapamha, Dennis Dauda, Joel Ngodzo.Zamalek squad: Goalkeepers: Ahmed El-Shennawy, Mahmoud Genesh. Defenders: Mahmoud Hamdy El Wensh , Osama Ibrahim, Shawky El Saeed, Mohamed Nassef, Mohamed Magdy, Ahmed Aboul-Fetouh, Ali Gabr. Midfielders: Moruf Youssef, Ibrahim Salah, Tarek Hamed, Shikabala, Mahmoud Dunga, Mohamed Ibrahim, Ahmed Refaat, Mostafa Fathi. Attackers: Bassem Morsy, Hossam Paolo, Stanley Ohawuchi, Emmanuel Mayuka.</strong>