 Neither do I condemn thee: These were the words of Jesus to a woman caught in adultery. Speaking in John 8:11, before the advent of the New Testament which He was soon to offer by His sacrificial death and resurrection, Jesus distances Himself from condemning. DEVOTION: Erasmus MakarimayiThe Mosaic law prescribed death for adulteryThese words should echo and emphatically so in your ears. Jesus knew His mandate and mission. Here it is in Matthew 1:21. It states: And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus: for he shall save his people from their sins. You are not condemned. Beloved, please do not live in fear, doubt, self denial or guilt. If you are born again, you are free and free indeed. In case you are not yet saved, Jesus is extending His love; pleas receive it.We are very convinced with Jesus agenda for our lives. He did not come here on earth to play games. Jesus did not appear on the scene to push us away from God and condemn us to peril. He did not die and rise to annihilate us. Apostle Paul never lived in agony of tainted past life were he persecuted the church. In 1 Timothy 1:15, he admonishes us: This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief. If Jesus came to save sinners, surely He cannot at the same time accuse you and condemn you. Romans 8:34 (Amplified Bible) rhetorically asks and challenges us. It reads: Who is there to condemn [us]? Will Christ Jesus (the Messiah), Who died, or rather Who was raised from the dead, Who is at the right hand of God actually pleading as He intercedes for us? Jesus is on the right hand of God the Father pleading mercy for us. He died and rose for this. Neither do I condemn thee: These are the eternal words of Jesus Christ. Romans 8:1 guide us: There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Walk in liberty. Colossians 2:8 (Amplified Bible) warns us: See to it that no one carries you off as spoil or makes you yourselves captive by his so-called philosophy and intellectualism and vain deceit (idle fancies and plain nonsense), following human tradition (men s ideas of the material rather than the spiritual world), just crude notions following the rudimentary and elemental teachings of the universe and disregarding [the teachings of] Christ (the Messiah). Please stick to Jesus, do not fall into human plain nonsense.Jesus came with hope and life. The Gospel of Christ, that is, the Grace of God brings life not condemnation. The New Testament is what is already done. It is knowing and believing. Knowledge is power. In Hosea 4:6a, God wished we cherished knowledge. It reads: My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: Refuse ignorance and destruction. Let no one belittle the finished works of Jesus in which you stand. You stand in grace, do not be misled. Do not cooperate with the devil, side with God in whom you are in Christ Jesus. The blood of Jesus dispenses life not condemnation. Hebrews 12:24 puts it thus: And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel. The blood of Jesus wherein you are, speaks mercy not punishment. The finished works of Jesus Christ which ushered us into this grace of God wherein we stand was not in vain. The opening quotation comes from a story which records a case brought to Jesus. The Mosaic law prescribed death for the offence. From such, Jesus came to rescue us and declare us righteous in Him before God the Father. Our fellow beings may decide to accuse and condemn us. Jesus our Redeemer frees us. Galatians 3:13 teaches: Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree: We are, therefore, blessed not cursed or condemned. We believe and accept the righteousness of God which is in Christ Jesus. We enjoy the rest of God in Christ. Romans 10:4 comforts us: For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that believeth. We are believers and we believe in Jesus. Jesus shouts and shouts loudly saying: Neither do I condemn thee: Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge. You are going somewhere. All Bible quotations are from the King James Version unless otherwise stated. Feedback: pastor@newgatechapel.org Fellowship with Pastor Makarimayi on Facebook and on www.twitter.com/PEMAKARIMAYI. Telephone +263 712 332 632