Struggling Castle Lager Premier Soccer League side Harare City are hoping to end both their dry spell as well as Highlanders good run when the two teams clash at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon. BY FORTUNE MBELEHighlanders forward Rodreck Mutuma (left) and Dynamos Elisha Muroiwa tussle for the ball during the match later abandoned at the weekend following crowd troubleThe match was supposed to have been played in Week Three, but was cancelled to make way for the Independence Trophy tournament.City gaffer Mike Madzivanyika is optimistic that his side can finally kickstart their season after a spate of poor results. It s a big game against Highlanders. We have not been winning and we need to dig deep to get a good result, he said yesterday.Madzivanyika believes that his team will come right soon, having been playing well, but finding it difficult to get positive results. We have not been winning, but I think it s a phase that will pass. The guys are working hard and we are prepared for Highlanders, he said.Midfielder James Jam, who had been sidelined due to injury, has started training and will have to pass a late fitness test, while Munyaradzi Sako and Kudakwashe Kumwala have been ruled out.Highlanders head coach Erol Akbay said his boys would not be affected by incidents surrounding the abandonment of their league match against Dynamos at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday.He, however, said despite Harare City s slow start to the season, the Sunshine City Boys would not be a stroll in the park. I think it has just been bad luck for Harare City, as they are a difficult side with very good defenders. My boys are ready for the next game, Akbay said.Highlanders would have been disappointed that their match against Dynamos was ended prematurely, as Bosso, despite having conceded a contentious equaliser, were playing well.Akbay will be hoping that striker Rodreck Mutuma, who tore through Dynamos at will, as well as the midfield trio of Simon Munawa, Rahman Kutsanzira and Allen Gahadzikwa will all pick up from where they left off in the ill-fated game.In Bulawayo, Lizwe Sweswe will be in charge of FC Platinum in the absence of head coach Norman Mapeza when they take on Chicken Inn at White City Stadium.He is confident that he can lead his side to a positive outcome this afternoon. The big boss is not around and when he returns, he has to find everything in order. This is not anything new to me. I have played Chicken Inn while I was at my previous club, but this is a new season and different game altogether. The morale is high in camp as always and everybody is raring to go, Sweswe said.FC Platinum sit on position six with three wins and four draws and are just a point above the GameCocks, who are coming from a win against Yadah FC.