Shabanie Mine . . . . . . . . (1)1 Tsholotsho . . . . . . . . . . . .0Shabanie Mine returned to winning ways with a narrow victory over battling Tsholotsho in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match played at Maglas yesterday. BY MUKUDZEI CHINGWERE Nelson Maziwisa s headed goal was enough to give the host maximum points.The Chinda Boys came into the duel hoping to replicate their early season form when they held champions Caps United before humbling Bulawayo giants Highlanders in their own backyard.The result means the miners are now on eight points from six matches, a commendable return for a club with one of the league s smallest budgets.For the visitors the loss sees them remain on four points so far this season.Shabanie Mine dominated the opening half with great determination inspired by their fans, attacking the visitors with pace that kept the opposite defenders busy.Their early dominance was rewarded a minute before the breather when Maziwisa rose above the defence to power home a headed goal, giving them the initiative at the interval. After the breather the visitors came with renewed vigour in search of an equaliser, Canaan Nkomo came close 10 minutes after the breather when his shot crashed against the woodwork.Shabanie Mine head coach Takesure Chiragwi was happy with the maximum points. I am very happy for the win in the previous game we played well but we were not scoring. We were working on our finishing during the week and I am happy today we got a goal that gave us maximum points it is good moral booster for the guys, Chiragwi said.Losing coach Farai Tawachera bemoaned their poor first half showing though he was impressed with their response after the breather. We did not play well in the first half we were still adapting to the pitch, but we played well in the second half. We tried to come back but it is unfortunate we failed they won the match, but in the second half we were in control and I have confidence for the future assignments, Tawachera said.