Hwange . . . . . . . . 0 (0) Triangle . . . . . . . 0 (0)HOSTS Hwange failed to break their winless run at home when they were held by Triangle in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at the Colliery yesterday. Tinashe Mungazi in Hwange Both teams have been struggling so far this season and needed maximum points.It was the visitors who almost opened the scoring through Courage Denias, but he sent his header wide early on.Twenty-two minutes into the match Denias was denied again, this time by Hwange goalie Taimon Mvula after his scorching shot was punched to safety.Triangle forward Russell Madamombe s effort following a free kick was also scuttled by an alert Mvula.Triangle were forced to substitute Denias, Brian Juwayeyi and James Chivasa following injuries.Hwange tried to take advantage of the forced changes and mounted pressure on the visitors with Justine Kaunda sending his effort just wide.A golden opportunity presented itself towards the final whistle after Collen Muleya broke off from the Triangle defence but his legs failed him as he kicked the ball safely into Ronald Mudimu s hands. Hwange could have tipped the score scale in their favour, however, Admire Banda failed to convert a good pass from Shepard Gandzikwa in the box.The home side s coach Nation Dube said the point they gained earned them confidence and is looking forward to his team starting to pick up maximum points. We missed some chances but I think today was our day. It s a positive because all these games we were failing to win, but today we got a point so as a beginning we can believe that we can win at home. Meanwhile his counterpart Tauwurayi Mangwiro said his boys could have carried the day, however, injuries disturbed their game plan. It was a winnable match I would want to think yes we might have gotten a point but if we look at what was happening especially in the first half we could have gone in there with a lead and it only took the last 15 minutes for Hwange to have their first real chance at our goal, which is what you would expect from a team that is playing at home. Perhaps our game plan was disturbed because we ended up sucking in a lot of pressure otherwise well fought, he said.