Chicken Inn . . . . . .0 How Mine . . . . . (1) 1HOW Mine continued with their winning ways in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League beating Chicken Inn at Luveve yesterday to register their fourth victory in a row. BY FORTUNE MBELEA schoolboy blunder by Chicken Inn goalkeeper, Elvis Chipezeze cost the former champions after he fumbled a Milton Ncube effort from a free kick onto How Mine defender Kudzai Chideu, who scored the only goal of the game three minutes before the break.With that win, the gold miners are now joint leaders on the log table with Ngezi Platinum and Highlanders on 13 points.Coach Kelvin Kaindu was naturally ecstatic after the match. This is what we desperately wanted. We thank God for the three points. What is important is getting maximum points even though we struggled towards the end, he said after the match.The match was punctuated by a red card on either side of half time with How Mine midfielder Pasca Manhanga sent off in 40th minute for a second bookable offence.Chicken Inn left-back, Divine Lunga also saw red in the 58th minute after also picking his second yellow card for rough play on How Mine s Adolf Muganyi, who gave the former champions&#8217; defence a torrid time.The Gamecocks could have got the equaliser in the second half, but squandered a number of chances with How Mine goalkeeper, Munyaradzi Diya coming to the gold miners rescue on a number of occasions. But Chicken Inn coach, Rahman Gumbo, who has only won one match at home against Bantu Rovers, blamed the loss on Chipezeze, adding the two red cards also changed the game s direction. A draw was going to be a fair result until those red cards. It was a balanced match. But I am getting sick and tired of my goalkeepers making stupid blunders. We seem to be getting positive results on the road and not at home, but we will get it right, he said.Chicken Inn remain on nine points after yesterday&#8217;s defeat.Teams:Chicken Inn: E Chipezeze, B Nyahunzvi (P Bernard 46), D Lunga (red card 58), M Jackson, G Goddard, R Goredema, C Samakweri (T Hadebe 63), N Muchadeyi (I Lawe 46), T Kadyaridzire, R Kutinyu, I TarumbwaHow Mine: D Bernard (M Diya 34), P Tonha (T Ranthokoane 65), B Mbiriri, K Chideu, M Sakala, M Mukumba, A Muganyi, P Manhanga (red card 40), K Musharu, G Nguwodzawo (N Ndlovu 57), M Ncube</strong>