NIGERIAN striker Abasirim Chidiebere believes he has brought the goals that will help Caps United in their bid to conquer Africa. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKANigerian striker Abasirim Chidiebere (left) flew into the country yesterday and was welcomed at Harare International Airport by his manager George DedaChidiebere, who, at 1,85m, will perhaps be the tallest striker in the Premier Soccer League, flew into Harare yesterday afternoon and was welcomed at the airport by his manager George Deda.He was later taken for an introduction to club president Farai Jere and they had lunch together.The imposing Nigerian, who has been playing his club football in Tanzania, said he chose Caps United because they were playing in the African Champions League.He said he came to help Caps United realise their dream of conquering Africa and was looking beyond trials with the team. First of all, I want to thank my manager. He knows what I can do. I have heard about Caps United, they are the present champions of Zimbabwe, Chidiebere. For me, I am here to help the team realise their dream in Africa. I know football is my job and will do everything to make Caps United supporters happy. One thing for me is that I am a God-fearing person, I don t drink neither do I smoke. I believe in myself, I believe in my capabilities and God knows why He brought me here to join Caps United, said the towering striker.Chidiebere, who brings a new dimension to the Caps United attack with his aerial strength, should profit from full-back Ronald Pfumbidzai, perhaps the best crosser of the ball in the top-flight at the moment.He is expected to form a deadly attack with Abbas Amidu, who has been redeployed to the unfamiliar role of centre forward and has easily established himself as one of the best strikers around. Another Caps United target, Ghanaian Wilson Andoh, trained with the team in the past two days and appears certain to sign with the technical team said to be happy with what they have seen of him, even though they still need to have another look at them upon their return from Egypt where they are set to play Zamalek in the African Champions League tomorrow.Chidiebere played for Coastal United in the Tanzanian league and scored 15 goals in his first season helping them to promotion into the top-flight. He played for them for three seasons in the top-flight and has been playing for Stand United, who are in sixth position on the league table.Caps United are also expecting another striker from Ghana, Richard Addah, who should be arriving in the country by next week.The Green Machine will play six Group B matches between May and July added to their domestic burden and the technical team saw the need to reinforce the squad.They kick off their campaign with an away match against Zamalek tomorrow, before they host USM Alger on May 24.The Green Machine will have back-to-back clashes against Al Ahli Tripoli, with the first match set for June 4, while the away game will be played between June 20 and 21.The Zamalek home match is set for July 2, and Chitembwe s side round off with an away match against USM Alger.