CHICKEN INN . . . . . . . . . . . .0 FC PLATINUM . . . . . . . . . . (0)1FC Platinum surged on the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League log with an important win on the road against Chicken Inn at White City Stadium yesterday. BY FORTUNE MBELEAggripa Murimba was on target in the 72nd minute, blasting the ball into the nets past goalkeeper Elvis Chipezeze after he was set up by Talent Chawapihwa inside the penalty box.A home win continues to elude Chicken Inn, who have only won against Bantu Rovers so far this season, although that match was played at Luveve Stadium. Moving to White City has not helped things for coach Rahman Gumbo, who sent goalkeepers coach Julius Ndlovu to grant post-match interviews because he had a sore throat.It was a good win for FC Platinum stand-in coach Lizwe Sweswe, who was delighted to get the three points. It was a tough match. We had our chances, but we could not convert them, Sweswe said. It s a challenge for us with our type of game playing on small pitches, but we got a positive result and that is good for us. It s a very important win so that we do not give the head coach [Norman Mapeza] any pressure when he returns. FC Platinum joined fellow miners Ngezi Platinum on 16 points after the win.Chicken Inn, who face another tough encounter against champions Caps United at Luveve on Sunday, also had their chances against FC Platinum, but they failed to utilise them. We had our chances and could not bury them. They got theirs and they scored, goalkeepers coach Ndlovu said.The GameCocks remain on 12 points after the FC Platinum defeat having also lost to How Mine, Bulawayo City and Black Rhinos at home.CHICKEN INN: E Chipezeze, P Bernard, T Hadebe, M Jackson, G Goddard, T Goredema, C Matawu (P Madhazi 80&#8242;), K Gurure (I Lawe 63&#8242;), I Mucheneka, T Kutinyu, O Tarumbwa (T Kadyaridzire 59&#8242;)FC PLATINUM: P Mhari, R Muduviwa, E Moyo, W Stima, I Nekati, G Takwara, S Shoko, R Chinyengetere (W Mhango 77&#8242;), T Chawapihwa (H Bakacheza 90+2&#8242;), A Murimba, G Mbweti