BY WINSTONE ANTONIONyava High SchoolRURAL Development, Promotion and Preservation of National Culture and Heritage minister, Abednico Ncube, will tomorrow launch this year s Culture Week at Nyava High School in Musana. The week-long programme will be commemorated from tomorrow to May 26 under the theme Consolidating Cultural Identity, Diversity and Heritage in the country s 10 provinces. Guests at Nyava High School will be entertained by Andy Muridzo and his Jeetaz band, 2016 Chibuku Road to Fame national winners Blacksight, Bindura-based sungura group Mahindekinde Stars, renowned poet Albert Nyathi, Panganayi Mutukwa and some traditional dance groups. Some of the activities that will be paraded at the event include a fashion show, art and craft exhibition, and herbal medicine exhibitions. Time and Jazz Caf Jazz fans will be in for a treat as renowned jazz outfit Jabavu Drive tonight headlines the Winter Jazz Festival supported by Gary Tight, Selmor Mtukudzi and Sulumani Chimbetu at Time and Jazz Caf in Harare. The curtains will come down tomorrow at the festival with performances from Edith WeUtonga, Alexio Kawara, Sam Dondo, Pamela Gonyeti Zulu, The Old Timers, Prince Edward and St Georges jazz bands. Theatre in the ParkThe British Council today screens an inspirational movie titled Eddie The Eagle as part of the European Union in Zimbabwe, in partnership with 11 member states film festival that will end tomorrow at Theatre in the Park, Harare Gardens. The film directed by Dexter Fletcher is a story about Michael Eddie Edwards (Taron Egerton), an unlikely, but courageous British ski-jumper who never stopped believing in himself even as an entire nation was counting him out. With the help of a rebellious and charismatic coach (played by Hugh Jackman), Eddie takes on the establishment and wins the hearts of sports fans around the world by making an improbable and historic showing at the 1988 Calgary Winter Olympics. Eddie the Eagle stars Taron Egerton as Eddie, the loveable underdog with a never-say-die attitude.Londoners Sports BarRaunchy dancer Beverly Sibanda tonight entertains merrymakers at Londoners Sports Bar located at Strathaven Shops in Mabelreign, Harare alongside wheel spinner, DJ Chaos who will be on the turntables.Jazz 24/7 in HarareZora musician Leonard Karikoga Zhakata tomorrow shares the stage with jazz sensation Aggabu Nyabinde as they serenade revellers at Jazz 24/7 formerly Jazz 105 in Harare.Veritas 2 Night ClubPeter Young Igwe Moyo tonight serenades revellers at Veritas 2 Night Club in Westlea, where he will be sampling some of the new songs off his forthcoming album Mupao Mukonzi to be launched on May 25 at Jazz 24/7 in Harare. Tomorrow he takes his act to Ruwa with a performance at Prime Time Night ClubDandaro InnPamela Gonyeti Zulu backed by her Hose Power band tonight performs at Dandaro Inn, Harare Showgrounds.Eland Sports BarSungura musician Tendai Dembo will tomorrow serenade merrymakers at Eland Bar in Kuwadzana 6.Reps TheatreBreakthrough Productions presents Where Is the Love a dance and musical extravaganza at Reps Theatre in Harare.Wadzanai Cocktail GardenThere will be dancehall madness at Wadzanai Cocktail Garden in the goldmining town of Shamva as cr me de la cr me of the genre headlined by Soul Jah Love will tonight take turns to entertain merrymakers at the potentially explosive show. The Pamamonya Ipapo hitmaker will share the stage with Sniper Storm, Mostaff, Mr Nicetime, Fizzman and Man Gunz with DJ Zvese Zvese rocking it on the turntables.Chakari Mine StadiumSungura musician Peter Moyo and gospel singer Mathias Mhere will share the stage tomorrow at the HIV and Aids campaign organised by Werras Entertainment in partnership with National Aids Council of Zimbabwe at Chakari Mine Stadium in Kadoma.Mutare MuseumSeveral people will today gather at Mutare Museum to commemorate the International Museums Day that will see museums throughout the world engage the public on the role museums play as institutions that serve society and its development. John Cowie, Cecil John Rhodes, Gutu United, Mpumelelo and Warren Park 4 primary schools will represent their respective regions as they fight for top honours in the Heritage Education Quiz Competition.Club Mandisa Sungura artistes Nicholas Senior Lecturer Zacharia and The Khiama Boys will tomorrow entertain merrymakers at Club Mandisa in Mutare. Horizon Night ClubHip-hop classic store in collaboration with the Zim hip-hop awards will tomorrow launch the latest local fashion brand called I am Hip-Hop at Horizon Night Club in Bulawayo. The fashion brand is meant to celebrate the local hip-hop scene and help to push entrepreneurship within the genre.Club 263The club tonight hosts the No Panty Party, which will see female revellers thronging the place without wearing underwear. There will be give-aways for ladies who will grace the event without panties. DJs St Willz and FFF Molfy will be on the turntables.Pub LagondolaAward-winning house music producer and musician Skaiva will perform at Gondiz as the place is affectionately known. His act is part of his nationwide Against All Odds tour which kicked off early this month. The tour is meant to promote his latest album titled Against All Odds.Mqombothi Sports BarDance group IYASA tonight serenades merrymakers at Mqombothi Sports Bar in Bulawayo. Entertainment will also be provided by DJs Sweeto, Phibz, Sherrif, Denzy, Stones and Kull Jeff.