BUDDING Mutare-based producer Olin Anderson, who owns Kunashe Studios in the sprawling suburb of Chikanga, has proved his Midas touch, propelling gospel music prodigy Blessing Shumba to greater heights. BY JAIROS SAUNYAMAOlin AndersonAfter a successful journey with renowned producer Lyton Ngolomi, Shumba was left alone in 2012 after the former found new fortunes in the name of Mathias Mhere.Many thought the Hama hitmaker had hit rock-bottom after the split with Ngolomi who, together with his wife Bethen Pasinawako were part of Shumba s Holy Psalms outfit, but the move to engage Anderson appears to be producing positive results.Anderson s touch is exhibited on Shumba s latest album, My Season, which is already rocking the airwaves within a week after its release with songs Tariro Ichiripo and Zvichanaka already doing wonders on the airwaves.Newsday Weekender caught up with the 27-year-old producer, who is also Shumba s keyboardist, who said it was easy to adapt to Shumba s music. I tried to, at least, listen to the owner of the music. He has his own way of doing things and he already knows his melodies, so it was not difficult to work with him. I only had to evolve the hand only. The secret is that when doing gospel music I do my best, he said.The young producer started off his journey with Shumba in 2014 when they did the album NdiJesu. The album did well with the song Chimwe Nechimwe being a hit. He also did the album Calvary that has songs like Matarenda and Kesari. I met Shumba just after finishing my A Level (studies) in 2009. He saw me playing the keyboard at an Evangelical Fellowship of Zimbabwe crusade here in Mutare. He liked my skills and I joined the band. He had come to perform at the crusade. He had no keyboardist and that was the day our journey began, he said.Born on July 3, 1990, Anderson grew up in a music family where he was taught how to play the guitar and keyboard by his father at a tender age.A product of St Dominic s High School, he established Kunashe Studios in February 2010. He then did online studies and went to a South African college.Anderson has worked with over 50 artistes across genres, recording over 100 albums. He recorded Botswana s self-acclaimed king of kwaito kwasa Odirile Sento popularly known as Vee s new four singles when they toured the neighbouring country with Shumba last year.The producer, who is also a videographer, has also produced albums for Jairos Mutambikwa, Voice of Praise, Augustine Malunga and Sakubva All Stars.