RIGHTS group, Crisis in Zimbabwe Coalition (CiCZ) has condemned government threats to amend the Constitution to scrap dual citizenship as undemocratic and discriminatory . By NQOBANI NDLOVURegistrar-General Tobaiwa MudedeRegistrar-General Tobaiwa Mudede recently said the government would not align the Citizenship Act to the Constitution on dual citizenship, but it would amend the country s charter to ensure dual citizenship is scrapped.Mudede argued dual citizenship posed a security threat, but CiCZ a coalition of civic society organisations condemned the move as barbaric.The CiCZ said the move showed government s lack of political will to align several other laws to the Constitution. We are deeply concerned with efforts and intentions by the State to scrap dual citizenship by amending Chapter 3 of the Zimbabwean Constitution, CiCZ said on Friday. The development indicates an absence of political accountability and political will to speedily align the country s laws to the Constitution including the Citizen s Act. In our view an amendment of Chapter 3 of the Constitution will cause statelessness. CiCZ said this was part of a bigger ploy to disenfranchise Zimbabweans living in the Diaspora, as we head towards the watershed 2018 elections . CiZC is appalled by such undemocratic and discriminatory tendencies by government, considering that the new Constitution is a new document, which was an outcome of extensive input of the majority including Zimbabweans living in the Diaspora, the organisation said.Chapter 3 of the Constitution says one may become a citizen of Zimbabwe by birth, descent or registration. As CiZC, we contend that amending Chapter 3 of the Constitution is a political move aimed at causing confusion regarding the citizenship status of Zimbabweans in the Diaspora ahead of the 2018 elections. Such a move also has potentially catastrophic consequences for the country s citizens some of whom are citizens by descent, CiCZ added. With an estimated three million Zimbabweans living in the Diaspora due to the country s economic and political crises among a myriad of other reasons, it is of utmost importance that the government adheres to the Constitution as a means of ensuring that its citizens in the Diaspora remain Zimbabweans with full citizens rights. 