ZPC KARIBA . . . . . . .(1) 2 CAPS UNITED . . . . . . . . 1ZPC Kariba dispatched Caps United to go top of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League log in a match played at Nyamhunga Stadium yesterday. BY NUNURAI JENAAbbas AmiduThis was the first defeat for Caps United on the domestic scene and one that could suck some confidence out of the Green Machine ahead of their Caf Champions League tie against USM Alger of Algeria.ZPC Kariba settled first and made their intention of winning known from the start, when they were awarded a penalty in the seventh minute after Caps United captain, Dennis Dauda handled in the box under pressure from the Green Machine s reject Blessing Nyamuziwa.But Caps United keeper, Edmore Sibanda dived to his right to block Raphael Manuvire s weak shot.ZPC continued to probe and were duly rewarded in the 17th minute when man-of-the-moment, Francisco Zekumbawire finished off a move involving Nyamuziwa and Manuvire.ZPC Kariba were unlucky in the 25th minute when Never Tigere s shot hit the crossbar, with the Caps goalie a beaten man.The Green Machine had their chance to level the scores , but Abbas Amidu missed the target in the 34th minute after a cross from Phineas Bamusi.The reigning champions levelled the scoreline a minute into the second half when Amidu finished off a pass by Joel Ngodzo, who had a quiet game.From then on, it was a see-saw affair until the 90th minute when Tigere scored a free-kick to beat Sibanda all systems out and torch wild celebrations in the stadium.ZPC coach, Sunday Chidzambwa said he was happy to win a tricky home game against Caps United. It was a question of two halves, us controlling the first half, while Caps controlled the second half. We both created chances, which we failed to put away, but, fortunately, we managed to score two goals, he said.Chidzambwa added that despite a run of five straight wins, it was too early to talk about the championship.Caps United coach, Lloyd Chitembwe said his players were affected by an overload of games. The players, as you can see, were not committing themselves probably because they fear to pick up injuries, he said. Every player wants to play at the highest level and that is the next Champions League match. Referee Pedzisai Chadya, who had a good day in the office, booked Dauda and Munyaradzi Kunyarimwe for dissent and rough play, respectively.TeamsZPC Kariba: T Hove, T Munyanduri, M Kunyarimwe, A Chivheya, T Nyamandwe, C Rukwanhi, N Tigere, R Manuvire (L Fiyado), T Chamboko, B Nyamuzihwa (D Chakupe 55 ), F ZekumbawiraCaps United: E Sibanda, V Musarurwa (Z Biseki 50 ), R Pfumbidzai, J Jangano, D Dauda, D Chafa, M Muchenje, J Ngodzo (D Chungwa 71 ), P Bamusi, J Nguluve, A Amidu</strong>