While most articles in the Press are clearly justifying the need for curriculum reform, little is being said about the way these reforms are being implemented in schools. These reforms emanate from the Nziramasanga Commission and the need to conform to global standards. Guest Column: Martin Tinashe NjaguPrimary and Secondary Education minister Lazarus DokoraA closer look at the education policy objectives in the Education Act of 1987 and the amendments to the Education Act of 2006, clearly justifies the stance taken towards the upgraded curriculum. Yes, policymakers are doing the right thing, but why is there so much controversy upon implementing the much-needed reforms?One school in Zvishavane took Primary and Secondary Education minister Lazarus Dokora to the Constitutional Court over the new curriculum. Is it that the responsible ministry is busy doing the right thing in a wrong way? Are parents reluctant to change? Is it that parents were left out in the consultation process prior to implementation? In short, the way the new curriculum is being implemented has raised more questions than answers on the part of parents and facilitators.I attended two school parent assemblies (annual general meetings), one high school and one primary, where both head teachers took the opportunity to unveil the upgraded curriculum. Below are the major highlights, as presented:I also got the opportunity to take a look at a scheme book for mass displays. Trust me, it means more paperwork and preparation for the facilitators.The upgraded curriculum really needed someone to explain it in simple terms so that parents can embrace it. Nziramasanga, being a scholar and researcher, took almost a year gathering data, with that data, for instance, drawn from 30% of the population.On the other hand, Dokora, being the policymaker, with only 5% data, can make decisions within a short period of time. In one article, Dokora is quoted saying that he is just following up on the Nziramasanga Commission when he was supposed to demystify the reformed curriculum.Well, the outgoing curriculum trained students to take instruction, pass and look for a job. Now those jobs are scarce there is need to change reasons for going to school. The upgraded curriculum caters for learners varying aptitudes, interests and abilities.Students need to learn to start their own businesses. In this current situation, graduates are failing to secure employment, while technicals and vocationals are enjoying, for example, builders, carpenters, welders and apprentice trades.The only reason for the slow uptake of the reformed curriculum by parents is the high financial implications. Parents tend to ask themselves how much they will need to fork out on top of school fees.Each secondary school textbook costs at least $25 despite that they are not readily available on the market. They need to buy at least three textbooks for new subject areas. A laptop costs around $250. This means more spending on education when the general trend shows parents are struggling to pay school fees.Let me conclude with possible alternatives for implementing the new curriculum.Martin Tinashe Njagu is a policy analyst in education and agriculture. He has written in his own capacity. Email: tinashenjagu28@gmail.com for feedback