Dynamos attacker Gift Saunyama has recovered from injury, but is unlikely to feature in today s Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match against Black Rhinos at the National Sports Stadium, which kicks off at 7pm. By Kevin MapasureSaunyama has had two days of training with the rest of the squad, having missed the trip to Bulawayo against Highlanders at the weekend.King Nasama is still out injured and will definitely miss the important clash with the army side, which is high in confidence following a good run.DeMbare coach Lloyd Mutasa said: Gift has only trained for about two days so we are happy with his return, but tomorrow s match comes too soon for him. It s pleasing to have a full complement of players to select from. However, King Nasama is still out. DeMbare go into the match against Rhinos this evening at the back of their abandoned match against Highlanders on Sunday, which lasted about 40 minutes.Mutasa acknowledges that his side faces another tough outing this evening, playing against a team full of confidence after a good start to the campaign. Rhinos have been playing well, the results they have achieved and their position on the log point to a good team. They play as a team and they are fighters. We will have to be at our best, both defensively and in attack. We conceded early against Highlanders, so it s something that we have to rectify. We do not want to put ourselves on the back foot and start chasing the game. We will also have to utilise our chances. Rhinos have collected 14 points from seven matches with their only defeat having come in their away match against Ngezi Platinum Stars.Before yesterday s matches, only Ngezi Platinum Stars and ZPC Kariba had collected more points than the army side, with 16 and 15 respectively. Dynamos, on the other hand, sit 14th on the league table with seven points from five matches.Their two defeats so far, against FC Platinum and How Mine, both came at the National Sports Stadium and Mutasa will be looking to improve on their home return.Dynamos played with a lot of energy against Highlanders even though the latter looked to have the upper hand.The popular Harare side will be looking to dominate Rhinos and they will be banking on the expertise of Denver Mukamba, their driving force from the midfield.The former champions will be hoping for a good crowd as they experiment with an evening match at the giant stadium.In Kariba, champions Caps United, one of only two teams still unbeaten in the top-flight, will be looking to cut the gap between them and the leaders.Having played five matches, the Green Machine have so far collected nine points.They know, however, that against ZPC Kariba, coached by experienced Sunday Chidzambwa, they face probably their biggest test so far.The Lloyd Chitembwe-coached side have all their players available for selection.