HARARE CITY ..0 ZPC KARIBA &#8230;.(1)1ZPC Kariba piled the misery on struggling Harare City with Talent Chamboko s second half goal deciding a tense contest in a Castle Lager Premiership tie at Morris Depot yesterday. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKAMarvin Gaki weaves his way past ZPC Kariba defender Arnold Chivheya in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match played at Morris Depot in Harare yesterdayChamboko benefited from Francesco Zekumbawire, who won the ball near the half way line and sped towards goal by the touchline before laying the ball into his path and he did justice, directing it to the far right post, beating goalkeeper Maxwell Nyamupangedengu on 42rd minute.The victory was their second having overcome Shabanie Mine in the previous match. It lifted them to sixth place with nine points from five matches.The result, however, means Harare City are still winless in the campaign so far, having drawn three and lost two. They lie on third position from the bottom with a paltry three points.Yet the Sunshine City Boys were dominant in the second half in which they could have killed off the match had their front runners been clinical in front of goal.Chamboko had earlier missed a good scoring opportunity shooting straight into the hands of the goalkeeper from a set up by Raphael Manuvire after 29 minutes. Harare City also had a good chance on the 33th minute, but William Manondo missed a headed opportunity. And Chamboko made amends three minutes before the break, directing a delivery from Zekumbawire on the left beyond the reach of the goalkeeper.Moments later, Honey Chimutimunzeve had his effort tipped over by ZPC Kariba goalkeeper Tendai Hove.In the second half, Harare City coach Mike Madzivanyika made a double substitution in a bid to rescue the match, introducing James Jam for Kuda Kumwala and Kuda Balakasi for Chimutimunzeve.The Sunshine City Boys launched a series of raids on the visitors goal with Tendai Samanja coming close on the 76th minute with a powerful long range drive but Hove was equal to the task.Still, the home team kept asking questions as they sought for an equaliser, but Sunday Chidzambwa s men remained resolute in defence.The ZPC Kariba coach was happy with the victory, but admitted it was a tough match. It was a difficult game for us. Our mission was to try and take three points to Kariba and I am happy we did. And we look forward to the next match. As a coach, you will never be satisfied and in our case there are some areas like defence we need to improve. Our defence is failing to deal with high balls, which I think is an area we need to work on, he said.His counterpart Mike Madzivanyika said: We lost to a team which created one chance and we had four, five chances and we couldn t put them away. We have to go back to training and work on it. It s my big worry that we are creating chances, but there is no composure in front of goal, he said.Teams Harare City: M Nyamupangedengu, E Zinyama J Tigere, P Kabwe, (W Muvirimi 67), R Uchena, E Madhananga, T Samanja, K Kumwala,(J Jam 46), W Manondo, M Gaki, H Chimutimunzeve (Balakasi 46)ZPC Kariba: T Hove, T Munyanduri, M Runyarimwe, S Appiah, A Chiveya, C Rukwanhi, D Chakupe, (B Mutukure 67)T Chamboko, R Manuvire, F Zekumbawire (T Nyamandwe 76), N Tigere</strong>