Harare City . . . . . . . . . .0 Ngezi Platinum . . . . . . (1) 1NGEZI Platinum wasted several opportunities, but ultimately overcame a battling Harare City to collect maximum points in a Castle Lager Premiership tie at Morris Depot Stadium yesterday. BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKATonderai NdirayaThe Platinum miners dominated the first half, but benefited from what appeared a soft penalty awarded by referee Brighton Chimene on 20 minutes after he adjudged that Jimmy Tigere had brought down Donald Teguru in the penalty area as he charged towards goal.Left-back, Qadr Amini sent goalkeeper Maxwell Nyamupanedengu the wrong way from the resultant penalty kick.The result lifted them to second position on the league table with 15 points from seven matches, the same as ZPC Kariba, who are, however, on top as they have scored more goals.Walter Mukanga also wasted another headed opportunity on 22 minutes following a good cross from Tichaona Mabvura.The home team though refused to be cowed into submission, coming close on 32 minutes but their chief striker, William Manondo, missed a headed opportunity from a Pritchard Mpelele cross.Three minutes later, Donald Teguru headed over the bar as the Platinum miners continued to launch several raids on the Sunshine City Boys.In the second half, Harare City coach Mike Madzivanyika brought in Tatenda Tumba for Potrasho Kabwe, hoping for a change of fortunes, and they were unlucky to level matters on 64 minutes with Manondo s effort crashing against the cross bar, as they appeared a rejuvenated side in the second half.They kept probing the visitors defence in the second half, launching wave after wave of attack. However, Ngezi Platinum defended resolutely until the final whistle to clinch maximum points.Ngezi coach Tonderai Ndiraya acknowledged they played second fiddle in the second half, but said they wasted chances in the second half. Well I thought we had a very good first half. We created so many opportunities but failing to score. That s what we have been doing in previous matches, creating opportunities but at the end of the day we don t got as many goals as we would have wanted. Look I am happy with the three points and the defending in the second half. I thought Harare City came back a rejuvenated side in the second half but look we are happy to get three points, Ndiraya said.His counterpart Mike Madzivanyika expressed disappointment to lose at home. When you can t win at home it becomes difficult. This is our second defeat at home. They used their chances and we missed our chances. Obviously it will be a difficult task for us but we have to try and start winning, Madzivanyika said.Teams: Harare City: M Nyamupanedengu, E Zinyama, J Tigere, P Kabwe (T Tumba 56), R Uchena, E Madhananga, L Muyambo, G Kufandada, W Manondo, M Gaki, P MpeleleNgezi Platinum: T Mawaya, Q Amin, T Dzukamanja, (M Charamba 85), W Mukanga, L Chakoroma, E Tapera, K Murera, D Teguru (E Mhungu 75), T Mabvura (M Phiri 67), G Murwira, P Jaure</strong>