POLICE yesterday said they were yet to identify the remains of three of the five people who perished in a bus accident that occurred along the Harare-Mutare Road on Thursday last week. BY STAFF REPORTERNational police spokesperson, Chief Superintendent Paul Nyathi, appealed to members of the public with missing relatives to check with mortuary attendants at Mutare General Hospital.The accident involved a Mukumba Brothers-owned Inter-Africa bus which veered off the road and hit a tree after the driver allegedly dozed off on the wheel. Five people died on the spot, while 18 others, including the driver were referred to Mutare and Rusape hospitals for treatment. Nyathi identified two of the victims as Loson Tererai Munkonya of Magwegwe North, Bulawayo, and Manyara Nyarume (34) of Nyangu township in Chimanimani. Meanwhile, police have raised alarm over the rise in armed robbery cases across the country and warned citizens to desist from keeping large sums of cash on their person, offices or at home. Police are concerned with the cases of armed robbery that have been occurring at service stations and other business premises. The robbers target places where they know large sums of money are being kept, by pouncing on their unsuspecting victims. In most instances they are armed with pistols or other dangerous weapons, Nyathi said. Armed robbers are on the prowl and the public is, therefore, discouraged from keeping large sums of money in person, cars and business premises. Police are urging the public to deposit their money with banks and should engage reputable security companies to guard their premises. He said on April 22, five suspected armed robbers wearing black jackets with hoods covering their heads stormed a Puma Service Station in Beatrice and got away with $10 161 after breaking a cash vault using explosives.In another incident, the police said a Chegutu man lost $580 to an Okapi knife-wielding gang of two on April 27, while a day earlier a female adult was waylaid by two males who attacked her with a knife before robbing her of money and property, including mobile phones valued at $258.