REPORTS that Tourism and Hospitality Industry minister Walter Mzembi wants to pursue the issue of excessive police roadblocks along some of the country s major roads with his Home Affairs counterpart Ignatius Chombo, are encouraging. Comment: NewsDay EditorHome Affairs minister Ignatius ChomboNo doubt excessive police roadblocks are in themselves an impediment to the growth of the tourism sector and a strong deterrent for visitors to this great country.Zimbabwe has some of the world s top tourism spots, yet the bulk of them are largely unexplored. Imagine the country s premier tourism resorts the Victoria Falls, Hwange National Park, Gonarezhou, Mana Pools and Eastern Highlands are just but a small portion of what defines the tourism sector. Yet, premier tourism spots around Zimbabwe constitute about 20% of the total land area.The industry can easily become an economic driver for the country. Is it too far-fetched to demand a complete halt to these unnecessary police roadblocks across the country?We believe Mzembi s engagements with Chombo should deal with this troublesome matter once and for all. There may be need to scale the matter up and debate it in Cabinet for its quick resolution.At a time Zimbabwe is desperate for revenue inflows, harassment of tourists and, indeed, domestic visitors at the copious roadblocks puts paid to claims that government is working flat out towards resuscitating tourism.The recent disclosures by the visitor exit survey (VES) done by the Zimbabwe National Statistical Agency (Zimstat), released in February this year, that police harassment constituted the highest percentage of reasons why leaving tourists would not recommend the country to potential visitors, must be very worrying and embarrassing too to government.We believe in light of the outcry over the increased police roadblocks countrywide, the right thing to do is for government to look seriously into this matter. Yes, the police s mantra of ensuring safety and security becomes hollow as it is no longer a secret that roadblocks have become a cash cow for the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP). It is a public secret that drivers are routinely harassed at police roadblocks to induce fear and, of course, push for bribes from motorists. Clearly, the police can go round their policing duties without engendering corruption. What we have seen is it appears all that the police are after is the fines and bribe money they can get from drivers especially public transport and haulage vehicles.Driving on Zimbabwe s roads is in itself an offence given the manner in which the police details manning the roadblocks routinely subject drivers to abuse and unnecessary pestering. The police now behave like criminals rather than crime fighters and this has contributed to the strong anti-police sentiment in the country. What is strange is that the ZRP now seems to be concentrating more on the roads while ignoring other sectors of society which also need their protection and policing. They could put good use to their huge numbers if they are to patrol residential and industrial areas at night to deter real criminals rather than reduce drivers to criminals who have to pay for a raft of offences when they get to a roadblock. Robbers and other criminals take advantage of the police invisibility, or absence rather, at night to engage in their nefarious activities. The police s conduct at roadblocks has left the majority of citizens with the impression that roadblocks are now a fundraising campaign given that unroadworthy vehicles are never impounded as long as the driver parts with some cash. Mzembi s call has come at an opportune time. These issues should be dealt with urgently. The police should reaffirm their claims to professionalism again and Chombo should play ball.