REPORTS that boardroom squabbles in former Vice-President Joice Mujuru s National People s Party (NPP) are derailing the fledgling political organisation rebranding is an indication that Zimbabweans longing for an opposition coalition ahead of next year s elections could be doomed, after all. Comment: NewsDay EditorYet, main opposition MDC-T party leader Morgan Tsvangirai has already gone into bed with Mujuru, whose party is yet to adopt a logo or slogan for the new opposition.Zimbabweans can all, but ask whether Mujuru will give any impetus into Tsvangirai s campaign trail or she s the biggest beneficiary of the coalition that is, if it eventually comes into fruition.One wonders if Mujuru cannot hold her outfit together at this critical juncture what will be her use in Tsvangirai s push for the Presidency. It is ironic that these squabbles are coming hardly two months after Mujuru s acrimonious split with former colleagues at the Zimbabwe People First (ZimPF) in particular Didymus Mutasa and Rugare Gumbo.Is the NPP ever going to adopt its image? Is the party a real opposition or it is simply a ploy to derail the change that Zimbabweans are yearning for? Is Mujuru herself totally divorced from Zanu PF? Mujuru should answer some of these questions given some of the so-called boardroom fights could be nothing, but a ruse to hoodwink Zimbabweans.We hold no brief for Tsvangirai, Mujuru, Zanu PF or any opposition party whatsoever. However, it is our role to mirror society and ensure Zimbabweans continue to talk to themselves on important matters of governance.One cannot take away the fact that 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe s Zanu PF could be the most organised political party so far. We have no doubt the Afrobarometer survey could give an indication of what the opposition should expect come the 2018 elections.We are hoping the opposition will not cry foul when they are always ill-prepared for the elections. Why would they fight over positions each time an election comes to the fore?Zimbabweans are tired of these unnecessary fights. Instead of dismissing the Afribarometer survey results or trivialise them, we urge the opposition to put their house in order and restrategise for better results. They must learn from the results and not think the survey is bogus, when they are disorganised like this.We have no doubt that Zimbabweans are tired of wrangling in opposition circles. People want to move forward with their lives, and if the opposition sleeps on duty, the electorate will definitely vote resoundingly for Mugabe and his party.We should give it to Tsvangirai, though, that he remains one of the most organised opposition leaders so far regardless of the splits that rocked his MDC party since its formation although not as robust as before.It is hoped that with the coming on board of all his erstwhile colleagues who had left him back into the MDC-T, this can only boost his chances to claim the ultimate prize.But still a lot of work must be done. It is time for Tsvangirai to call Mujuru to order for the good of the opposition coalition or it is doomed.If the opposition coalition is to wrest power from Zanu PF, there is definitely need for order. Mujuru s circus is fodder for humiliation.